One teen is dead and two others have been injured following a shooting at an Alabama mall prior to Black Friday shopping.
Authorities say the shooting happened about 9:30 p.m. Thursday at the Riverchase Galleria in Hoover, a nearby suburb of Birmingham.
Police say a fight between two teens, including an 18-year-old, resulted in a gunfire exchange. One teen fled but was confronted by two Hoover police officers.
Captain Gregg Rector said at a news conference that a Hoover officer “did engage that individual, shot him and he is dead on the scene.”
The second teen was hospitalized in serious condition. Rector said a 12-year-old girl also struck by gunfire was hospitalized. Her condition was not immediately known.
The Riverchase Galleria said the mall is closed until further notice.
A 75-year-old woman has been stabbed to death in a suspected domestic incident in south London, as the wave of violent crime in the capital continues.
The victim – named by friends as Maureen Watkins – died after being attacked at a house on Ethnard Road in Peckham shortly after 4pm on Friday afternoon.
A 55-year-old man – believed to have known Ms Watkins – was arrested at the scene on suspicion of murder.
Ms Watkins was said to have lived at the terraced property with her son for around 30 years.
“She was a lovely lady, a very nice lady indeed,” said a friend living nearby, who asked not to be named. ”It is very sad."
Another neighbour, who stopped to lay a bouquet of flowers at the property, said: “Maureen was lovely. I’ve been here since I was about four years old and she was here the whole time. I’ve always known her to say hello and that. I’m just shocked really.”
Detectives in the Metropolitan Police’s homicide and major crime command are investigating.
“The man and the woman were known to each other,” said a Met spokesperson. “No other persons are sought in connection with this incident.”
The violent death toll in London continues to rise, with the latest killing bringing the total number of homicides to 122 – more so far this year than in the whole of 2017.
A grim spate of bloodshed in the capital saw five separate stabbing deaths in the week from 31 October.
Police officials responded angrily to comments made by the home secretary Sajid Javid about rising knife crime earlier this week.
Mr Javid said the police needed to “step up the response to get the situation under control”.




Ken Marsh, chairman of the Metropolitan Police Federation, told The Independentpoliticians should “leave police alone and let us do our jobs”.
A federal grand jury in Kentucky has charged a white man with three hate crimes in the shooting deaths of two African-Americans last month at a grocery.
U.S. Attorney Russell Coleman announced the indictment Thursday in Louisville against 51-year-old Gregory Bush. Bush is charged with three hate crimes, one for each person who was killed and one for attempting to shoot another person based on race or color. He was also charged with three firearms counts. He could face the death penalty if convicted.
Gregory Bush was indicted previously in state court on two counts of murder and other charges. He pleaded not guilty.
Bush had stopped at a historically black church near the Kroger in suburban Louisville before heading to the grocery, where 69-year-old Maurice Stallard and 67-year-old Vicki Lee Jones were killed.
A pregnant mother-of-five was killed with a crossbow in front of her husband and children in an attack which left her unborn baby in critical condition in hospital.
Sana Muhammad, also known as Devi Unmathallegadoo, was shot in the abdomen during the confrontation at her home in Ilford, east London, on Monday morning.
Doctors performed emergency surgery to save her unborn infant boy, who is now in a stable condition, but 35-year-old Ms Muhammad died from her injuries just over three hours later.
Suspect Ramanodge Unmathallegadoo, who is believed to be the victim’s ex-partner, was arrested at the scene.
The 50-year-old suspect, of no fixed address, was charged with murder on Tuesday morning and is due to appear at the Old Bailey on Thursday.
Her husband, Imtiaz Muhammad, 42, told the Evening Standard that he found her killer hiding in their garden shed when he went to put away a cardboard box.
“He was there with the crossbow loaded. He stared at me, he was going to shoot so I ran into the house,” said Mr Muhammad.
“My wife was doing the washing up, I was shouting ‘run, run, run’. He shot her. I can’t help thinking she took my arrow.
“The kids were all there, it was horrific. The arrow went up into her heart but did not touch the unborn baby.
“They operated with the arrow still in because it would have been too dangerous to take out.”
A man who strangled his pregnant wife and suffocated their two young daughters wanted to escape his marriage and growing family, prosecutors said Monday as a judge imposed a sentence of life without parole as part of a plea deal that kept the killer from facing the death penalty.
Ms Muhammad, who had three children from a previous relationship, married Mr Muhammad six years ago and was eight months pregnant with her sixth child at the time of her death.
Her husband added: “She was a wonderful mother and wife. I am heartbroken.”
The Metropolitan Police said officers were called to the address in Applegarth Road at 7.40am on Monday.
“Officers and London Ambulance Service attended and found a 35-year-old woman suffering an abdominal wound/injury,” the force said in a statement.
“The injured woman was taken to an east London hospital where she was sadly pronounced dead at 11am.”
A Met Police spokesperson confirmed the baby was delivered at hospital and remains there in a stable condition.
Police referred to the victim using her former name of Devi Unmathallegadoo.
Christopher Watts, who pleaded guilty two weeks ago, did not speak during the hearing. One of his attorneys said Watts was “sincerely sorry.”
As Watts listened with his head down, Shanann Watts’ parents detailed their ongoing struggle to understand how he could murder the three people who considered him a hero — Shanann, 34, Bella, 3, and Celeste, 4. Frank Rzucek said he was disgusted by the way his son-in-law took his wife and two daughters “out like the trash.”
“Prison is too good for you,” Frank Rzucek said. “This is hard to say, but may God have mercy on your soul.”
Watts, 33, was formally sentenced to consecutive life sentences for the murders. He also received a 48-year sentence for unlawful termination of a pregnancy and 12 years each for tampering with a human body.
The girls’ bodies were found submerged in an oil tank on property owned by the company Watts worked for. His wife’s body was found in a shallow grave nearby.
As a prosecutor detailed the injuries found on the bodies, Frank Rzucek leaned forward, gasping. Michael Rourke said Shanann Watts was strangled, but her lack of significant injuries suggested that her death came slowly.
The girls were smothered, and Rourke said there were signs Bella “fought for her life.” Celeste had no visible injuries, he said.
Christopher Watts’ parents, Cindy and Ronnie Watts, were permitted to speak as the girls’ grandparents. Each said they still loved their son and urged him to seek God’s forgiveness.
“We love you,” Cindy Watts said into a microphone before turning to look directly at her son. “And we forgive you, son.”
Watts wiped away a tear with his shirt after his parents left the podium. He kept his head down for much of the hearing, speaking only once to confirm that he did not want to make a statement before Judge Marcelo Kopcow imposed his sentence.
Friends of Shanann Watts and neighbors in the subdivision where the family lived lined up inside the courthouse Monday morning. More people filed into an overflow room to watch a video stream.
The killings captured national media attention and became the focus of true crime blogs and online video channels, which showed dozens of family photos and videos that Shanann Watts shared on social media showing the smiling family.
Prosecutors said the images belied a hidden truth, that Christopher Watts was having an affair and making plans for a new life. Rourke said Watts talked with a real estate agent about selling the family’s home, looked up secluded vacation spots and didn’t seem interested in the self-help books his wife provided.
A friend asked police to check on Shanann Watts on Aug. 13 after not being able to reach her and growing concerned that the expectant mother had missed a doctor’s appointment. Local police initially handled the search but soon sought support from state investigators and the FBI.
Christopher Watts spoke to local television reporters from the front porch of the family’s home in Frederick, a small town on the plains north of Denver where drilling rigs and oil wells surround booming subdivisions.
He pleaded for his family’s safe return, telling reporters their house felt empty without Bella and Celeste watching cartoons or running to greet him at the door.
Within days he was in custody, charged with killing his family.
A New Jersey couple and a homeless man behind a viral GoFundMe campaignfabricated a heartwarming story in order to raise money for themselves, prosecutors said Thursday.
Mark D’Amico, Kate McClure and Johnny Bobbitt face charges including conspiracy and theft by deception after raising more than $400,000 in a GoFundMe campaign established in November 2017.
McClure and D’Amico ostensibly set up the GoFundMe last year for Bobbitt, a homeless veteran, after he gave McClure his last $20 when she ran out of gas while driving into Philadelphia. The campaign purported to raise money for Bobbitt to help him get rent money for an apartment, a vehicle and four-to-six months’ worth of expenses. McClure’s story went viral, bringing in donations from more than 14,000 people who were touched by his kind gesture.
But that story was fake, Burlington County Prosector Scott Coffina told reporters Thursday. McClure did not run out of gas and Bobbitt did not spend his last $20 on her behalf. Instead, all three worked together to come up with a “feel-good story” that would inspire donors to give money.
“The entire campaign was predicated on a lie,” Coffina said.
McClure and D’Amico were arrested Wednesday in Burlington County and released on bail, Coffina said. Bobbitt was arrested Wednesday in Philadelphia and is awaiting extradition back to New Jersey.
Coffina said that by March 2018, the couple spent the vast majority of the donated money on a car, vacations, a number of handbags and casino visits. He said authorities found more than 60,000 texts between McClure and D’Amico about their financial woes, discussing their inability to pay their bills and their increasing debts.
Thursday’s charges offer some clarity following months of legal skirmishes between the couple and Bobbitt. McClure and D’Amico have been under investigation since September, after Bobbitt accused them of using the money they raised for him on themselves. Bobbitt sued McClure and D’Amico in August, claiming he received only $75,000 of the $400,000 raised and saying they used the money for vacations and a new BMW. The couple, who initially said they were holding on to the money out of fear that Bobbitt would spend it on drugs, were ordered to put the remaining funds into an escrow account.
Coffina added the trio may have gotten away with the scheme had the dispute between Bobbitt and the couple not become public. McClure and D’Amico had met Bobbitt near a casino they frequented and had known him for about a month before the GoFundMe campaign went live, he said.
Police raided McClure and D’Amico’s New Jersey home in September, taking bags and boxes of items and the BMW the couple had purchased. They said they used their own money to buy the car. A judge temporarily halted the lawsuit filed by Bobbitt against the couple as the investigation unfolded. A lawyer for the couple said in September that Bobbitt received about $200,000 from the fundraiser.
GoFundMe, which gave Bobbitt $20,000 in September as financial assistance during the investigation of the case, said Thursday that it will fully refund all the money raised to donors.
“While this type of behavior by an individual is extremely rare, it’s unacceptable and clearly it has consequences,” GoFundMe said in a statement to TIME. “Committing fraud, whether it takes place on or offline is against the law. We are fully cooperating and assisting law enforcement officials to recover every dollar withdrawn by Ms. McClure and Mr. D’Amico.”
A lawyer for McClure and D’Amico declined to comment. Attorneys for Bobbitt did not immediately respond to requests seeking comment.
It’s a mystery that kept residents of Kansas City, Mo., on the edge of their seats for a dozen days:
Who, pray tell, who would want to steal a 10-foot-by-10-foot, 150-pound, pink inflatable intestine, which is shaped like an archway and offers something of a colonoscopy walking tour?
But steal it someone did, earlier this month, prompting a police investigation, a pithy #StolenColon hashtag, a deluge of bathroom jokes and demands for answers.
The giant inflatable colon, which is used to raise awareness about colorectal cancer, quickly became a social media sensation, offering a lighthearted break from news of violence and political division.
The mystery began on Oct. 18, when the inflatable colon was left uncovered in a truck in a driveway, where it was being kept ahead of a breast cancer awareness event. It disappeared overnight, said Stacie Moody, the event director for the Kansas City, Mo., chapter of Get Your Rear in Gear, which raises awareness for colorectal cancer with an annual 5K race.
On a summer night in Anchorage seven years ago, law enforcement officials say, Gerardo Adan Cazarez Valenzuela arrived at a KeyBank. He had no problem getting in. He worked there.
He also had no problem getting into its vault. He was the bank’s cash vault services manager. And so, the authorities say, Mr. Cazarez — dressed in a sharp red shirt and black suit — strolled right on in with a rolling cart and three big boxes.
He turned out the light and, under the cover of darkness, began filling the boxes with cash, prosecutors say. By the time he was finished, they say, he had taken about $4.3 million. Then he left the bank. The whole thing took about 20 minutes.
Mr. Cazarez managed to take the money and run (at least figuratively — there was a lot of driving and some flying involved, too) all the way to Mexico, where he was quickly detained, charged, convicted and eventually jailed for money laundering, smuggling and other charges.
On Wednesday, seven years after the money was taken from KeyBank, prosecutors announced that Mr. Cazarez, now 33, had been extradited from Mexico back to the United States to face a separate theft charge. He arrived in Anchorage late Tuesday and made his first court appearance there on Thursday morning. A spokeswoman for the United States Attorney’s Office said he pleaded not guilty and was ordered detained pending trial.
It was not clear if Mr. Cazarez had a lawyer. Attempts to reach him Wednesday night were not successful.


If convicted, Mr. Cazarez would face a sentence of up to 30 years in prison, and a fine of up to $1 million.
In a sworn affidavit, an F.B.I. special agent laid out each step of the alleged theft and Mr. Cazarez’s attempt at a far-flung getaway.
After leaving the bank with the money on July 29, 2011, the agent said, Mr. Cazarez drove home and transferred the cash from the boxes into duffel bags and suitcases. Then he drove to the airport to catch a private charter flight to Seattle that he had previously arranged.
rom there, the agent said, Mr. Cazarez hailed a cab to take him to his girlfriend, who had also flown to Washington State. On the way, with the help of the cabdriver, he found and bought an AK-47 and a handgun, along with ammunition, for $4,000, the affidavit said. Then the driver dropped Mr. Cazarez at a home where he met his girlfriend.
Eventually, Mr. Cazarez bought a Ford Fusion under his girlfriend’s name, and the couple drove south to California, and then on to Tijuana, Mexico, the affidavit said. On Aug. 1, 2011 — three days after the theft in Alaska — the couple abandoned the Ford Fusion and boarded a bus bound for Sonora, Mexico, according to the affidavit.
It was there that the pair finally ran into trouble. When the bus stopped at a checkpoint, the couple collected their luggage, walked through the line and were flagged for further inspection, the affidavit said. Mr. Cazarez told his girlfriend that “they were in serious trouble.”
When the Mexican authorities opened their suitcases, they discovered about $3.8 million in cash, plus the firearms and ammunition, the affidavit said.
Back in Anchorage, KeyBank officials were struggling to open their vault. And Mr. Cazarez, they realized, had not come to work.
It took an entire day for bank officials to open the door. Once they got inside, the affidavit said, their fears were confirmed: “Large quantities of cash were missing.” The bank’s security-camera recordings would help them piece together what had happened.
The desert hairy scorpions and domino cockroaches had vanished. The shelves at the Philadelphia Insectarium and Butterfly Pavilion were empty, and there was little movement in the glass cases. Electric-blue staff uniforms hung from knives that had been stabbed into a wall.
Thieves had stolen more than $40,000 worth of insects and lizards, and the police suspected an inside job.
Security cameras around the pavilion recorded several people creeping out of the museum last week with plastic containers holding giant African mantises, bumblebee millipedes, warty glowspot roaches, tarantulas, dwarf and tiger hissers, and leopard geckos.
John Cambridge, the chief executive of the insectarium, said he believed that “someone recognized an opportunity to remove some creatures” and did it.
An estimated 7,000 animals, or about 80 to 90 percent of the population of the insectarium, were stolen on Aug. 22 and possibly other days, Dr. Cambridge said. Three current or former employees of the insectarium are the suspects, the Philadelphia Police Department said in a statement. Officer Tanya Little, a department spokeswoman, said there had been no arrests yet.
The police have contacted the suspects and are searching their homes in hopes of finding surviving insects. It is difficult to know which creatures were stolen because the thieves also stole the logs used by the pavilion to keep track of the insects.
“They are extremely easy to hide,” Dr. Cambridge said in an interview on Thursday. “We want to make sure that these creatures are treated with respect.”
“I really don’t think the perpetrators realize the severity of what they were doing,” he added. “We believe these were taken for the purpose of resale.”
In June 2009, Edwin Rist, a 20-year-old American flutist studying at the Royal Academy of Music, smashed a window at the Museum of Natural History in Tring, near London, and pulled off one of the more bizarre robberies of recent decades. Under the nose of a hapless security guard, Rist ransacked storage drawers and absconded with the preserved skins of 299 tropical birds, including specimens collected by the legendary naturalist Alfred Russel Wallace in the mid-19th century. He intended to fence the birds’ extravagantly colored plumage at high prices to fellow aficionados in hopes of raising enough cash to support both his musical career and his parents’ struggling Labradoodle-breeding business in the Hudson Valley.
Kirk Wallace Johnson’s “The Feather Thief: Beauty, Obsession, and the Natural History Heist of the Century” recounts Rist’s odd crime and its even more curious aftermath. Johnson, a former U.S.A.I.D. employee in Falluja, Iraq, and the founder of the List Project (a nonprofit organization that resettles Iraqis marked for death after working with the American military), first heard about Rist’s robbery during a trout-fishing holiday in New Mexico: “I don’t know if it was Edwin’s Victorian sounding name, the sheer weirdness of the story or the fact that I was in desperate need of a new direction in life, but I became obsessed with the crime within moments.” So he set out to learn all he could about Rist, unspooling a complex tale of greed, deception and ornithological sabotage.
Rist’s feather obsession turns out to have rich antecedents. Johnson describes Wallace’s 1854 expedition through the Malaysian jungle in pursuit of the Bird of Paradise, which “had an otherworldly beauty. … From its tail emerged two wiry feathers that spiraled tightly into two glittering emerald coins.” Walter Rothschild, the eccentric scion of the banking family, eagerly took in the specimens from the expedition and assembled the largest private collection of bird skins in the world at his Tring mansion, which later became a branch of the Natural History Museum.
It’s a card, with 800 words written on it, and the police want to know who made it disappear.
These are no ordinary words, scrawled by the hand of an ordinary author: They’re a brief prequel to the “Harry Potter” series written by J.K. Rowling, and their theft prompted the police in central England to call on Friday for the return of the stolen manuscript.
The card was taken last month during a burglary in Birmingham, England, the West Midlands Police said in a statement that asked for anyone with information about the theft to contact them.
The manuscript was auctioned in 2008 to raise money for literacy causes, selling for 25,000 pounds, or about $32,100 at current exchange rates, according to the BBC. Police said that burglars had also taken jewels from the property. The police did not say why they were making the theft public now, nearly three weeks after the manuscript was taken.
A man was arrested following an altercation with a fast food worker in Lindsay, Ont., on Thursday afternoon.
City of Kawartha Lakes Police Service say around 1:35 p.m., police were informed that a customer had assaulted a staff member at a fast food restaurant on Lindsay Street South.
The victim did not sustain serious injuries, police said.
Police investigated and made an arrest.
Sean Michael Fisher, 28, of Lindsay was charged with assault with a weapon, breach of probation and breach of an undertaking.
He was held in custody pending a bail hearing, police said.
Former Saskatchewan Roughrider Justin Cox will have to wait two weeks to learn his sentence after pleading guilty to a 2017 assault.
Cox was in Regina courtroom Tuesday afternoon, after pleading guilty to assault causing bodily harm on Sept. 5.
The Crown is asking for a one-year sentence plus probation while the defence is asking for less jail time, with probation and anger management.
In the summer of 2017, Regina police received word of a woman in the hospital who was the victim of an apparent assault.
READ MORE: Former Rider Justin Cox pleads guilty to assault
A man who assisted the 23-year-old woman told police that he happened upon what appeared to be a physical altercation while driving down 10th Avenue.
In her victim impact statement, she said she believes she would have lost her life if she hadn’t run away that day.
Later that evening, a man entered a business on the 1600 block of Albert Street claiming he had been robbed.
The employee offered to call the police, but the man declined and left the store. He later returned to grab the hat he had left behind.
Police allege the man pointed a gun at the woman working and then left.
Cox was arrested shortly after in front of a residence in the 900 block of Stanley Street.
He made two court appearances on assault and weapons charges on Aug. 31 and Sept. 1 of 2017.



On Oct. 5 of this year, police issued a news release asking for the public’s help in locating the 25-year-old.
Cox, once again, had been charged with assault after police found an injured woman in a residence in east Regina on Sept. 5.
He has since been arrested, with that trial set to begin on March 18, 2019.
Two of three teens charged in connection with a violent carjacking in Wetaskiwin, Alta., earlier this month were scheduled to appear in court on Tuesday while the other person accused of being involved in the crime will appear in court next week.
The charges stem from an incident that took place outside the Wetaskiwin Mall on Nov. 7. The RCMP said one of its members witnessed a woman being carjacked at knifepoint in the shopping centre’s parking lot.
READ MORE: 15-year-old boy faces charges after youths allegedly approached with gun at Wetaskiwin Mall
“A 76-year-old victim was dragged out of her truck by three males who fled in the truck before the… member could intervene,” police said in a news release issued on Thursday.
“The truck was heading towards Maskwacis and involved in a short pursuit with RCMP and once the vehicle was stopped, the three individuals fled on foot.”
Police said all three suspects were found and arrested without incident. The victim was not seriously injured but police said she did seek medical attention after the episode.
Jeral Rabbit, a 19-year-old man from Maskwacis, and 18-year-old Chaz Cattleman of Calgary have been charged with robbery with an offensive weapon, possession of a weapon for a dangerous purpose, theft of a truck and resisting or obstructing a peace officer. Cattleman is also charged with assault with a weapon while Rabbit has also been charged with three counts of failing to comply with conditions. Both were scheduled to appear in court on Tuesday.
A 17-year-old boy from Wetaskiwin has been charged with robbery with an offensive weapon, possession of a weapon for a dangerous purpose, resisting or obstructing a peace officer, theft of a truck, operating a motor vehicle while being pursued by police and three counts of failing to comply with a probation order. Because of his age, he cannot be named as per the Youth Criminal Justice Act. His next court appearance is scheduled for Nov. 21.
Police say a 57-year-old man was woken up to an assault in Saskatoon’s North Park neighbourhood.
The weapons-related call for service came in at roughly 8:45 a.m. CT on Nov. 17.
READ MORE: Woman pulled into van, sexually assaulted in Saskatoon
The injured man was found at a home in the 1500-block of Spadina Crescent East.
Officers learned he had been sleeping in a chair in the living room when he was physically assaulted with a belt and an unloaded airsoft gun.
Saskatoon police said he did not sustain any serious injuries.
A 25-year-old man is facing two counts of assault with a weapon.
The museum opened less than a year ago, on November 17, 2017, in the heart of the US capital. A 430,000-square-foot, eight-story building dedicated to the Bible and its history, it features free admission and Hollywood-style entertainment. Behind this pharaonic enterprise is billionaire Steve Green, president of the Hobby Lobby chain of arts and crafts stores. The company became widely known with the 2014 US Supreme Court case, which grew out of its refusal to comply with the contraceptive-coverage requirement of the 2010 Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, popularly known as Obamacare.
Green, a devout Evangelical Christian and grandson of a Pentecostal minister, uses his fortune to champion Christian faith and the Bible. According to him, it is the error-free word of God, the ultimate and infallible authority in matters of faith and morals. To fill his museum, Green sought to acquire some of the oldest Biblical manuscripts as evidence of the Holy Scriptures’ reliability through the millennia.
Green is not alone in the race: other American Evangelicals have also been trying to get their hands on ancient Biblical manuscripts to gain scholarly credibility while maintaining fundamentalist views. For example, after Azusa Pacific University acquired a number of fragments, it compared itself to the University of Chicago’s renowned Oriental Institute. The ideological and financial stakes are far from negligible.
The law of supply and demand being at work, the price of such artefacts has soared. Confetti-sized fragments of Biblical texts from the dawn of the Christian era are sold for hundreds of thousands of dollars apiece. But where do these manuscripts come from?
The first were discovered in 1946-47 by Bedouins searching the shores of the Dead Sea. Hidden in caves near Wadi Qumran, swaddled in cloth and sealed in jars, these scrolls resisted the centuries to convey the literary works of ancient Judaism – including the Bible. The Dead Sea Scrolls are 2,000 years old, whereas the oldest Hebrew Bible known to date is from the 10th century CE. With their discovery, we were propelled a thousand years back in time toward the origins of the Biblical texts.
Ironically, the oldest manuscripts do not match the classical text of the Bible, including the King James translation preferred by Steve Green. The 250 Dead Sea Scrolls exhibit numerous readings, with entire chapters sometimes missing or displaced. That’s the case of a Psalms scroll in Paris’s Bible and Holy Land Museum, where Psalm 31 is immediately followed by Psalm 33, skipping Psalm 32.
On Jan. 26, 1966, Australian Jane Beaumont, 9, had been tasked with watching her two younger siblings at the Glenelg beach, as she had done on past occasions. Except this time, Jane, 7-year-old Arnna, and 4-year-old Grant never returned to their suburban Adelaide home. Though police had some clues to work from—OZYreports the children were seen speaking to a blond man, bought a meat pie with money their parents say they didn't leave the house with, and were seen heading home by a postman—the truth of their disappearance persists more than 50 years later in a case that forever altered the way Australians parented. In January, international coverage amped up again as the 50-year anniversary approached; one particular development led authorities to hunt down details of an already deceased suspect. It didn't pan out.
But the coverage may have had an effect: News.com.au in January reported that over the past two years, police have fielded 159 calls about the case, or one every four days on average. Two months later, Australia's ABC reported that 246 calls had been received so far in 2016. But the case is now so old that the person who committed the crime is either dead or between 70 and 100 in age, Detective Superintendent Des Bray notes. "The window of opportunity to get a result is in decline." A $1 million reward is being offered to anyone who can provide new information. Police excavated a site in connection with the case as recently as 2013, reports ABC. (Read about another baffling mystery that, oddly, also involves a beach near Adelaide.)
 Armed men kidnapped 15 girls overnight in southeastern Niger, the local mayor said on Saturday.
Boukar Mani Orthe, the mayor of Toumour in the Diffa Region of Niger near the border with Nigeria, said about 50 unidentified armed men had seized the girls in a village about six miles from the town center.
There was no claim of responsibility, but Boko Haram, the Islamist extremist group, has used mass kidnappings of students as a tactic to terrorize the population.
In Cameroon earlier this month, dozens of students kidnapped from a boarding school were freed after being held hostage for about two days, according to local and military officials.
Boko Haram was not suspected of being behind the school kidnapping.
On Thursday, fighters suspected of belonging to Boko Haram killed eight people working at a water well site in Toumour operated by Foraco, a French drilling company.
“Last night at 2 a.m. local time, a group of terrorists attacked the small building where a Foraco team was sleeping and killed seven of them, plus one civil servant,” the company said in a statement.
Five other employees were wounded, with two in serious condition, it said. The workers were drilling two deep wells in the region for the water ministry.
Boko Haram has been waging an insurrection since 2009 that is aimed at establishing an Islamic state in northeast Nigeria. It has launched repeated attacks into neighboring Niger, Chad and Cameroon.
The violence has killed thousands of civilians and forced millions to flee their homes in the large Lake Chad basin region.
Nigeria’s military on Saturday acknowledged a major attack against it by Islamic extremists after opposition lawmakers said 44 soldiers were killed, while public pressure on President Muhammadu Buhari grew over the failure of his pledge to defeat Boko Haram, according to The Associated Press.
The military statement issued overnight did not say how many were dead after the Nov. 18 attack in Metele in the northeast, but it dismissed news reports citing even higher tolls and described the situation as under control. Nigeria is often reluctant to expose the number of casualties after such attacks.
As Mr. Buhari faces growing pressure over insecurity ahead of next year’s presidential election, an aide said the president had summoned military chiefs and sent the defense minister to neighboring Chad for an “urgent meeting” with President Idriss Déby. A multinational force combating Boko Haram is based in Chad.
Nigeria’s leader is “worried by Boko Haram’s renewed attacks on military bases,” the aide, Bashir Ahmad, said on Twitter.
Numerous students were kidnapped from a boarding school early Monday in a part of Cameroon where separatists are waging a violent battle to break away and form their own country.
The students were kidnapped either late Sunday or early Monday from a Presbyterian boarding school in Nkwen, a small village not far from the northwestern city of Bamenda in one of Cameroon’s two English-speaking regions.
The total number of hostages, and who was behind the kidnappings, were unclear Monday afternoon.
Some media outlets reported as many as 80 students had been kidnapped, along with a principal and two other employees. A Cameroon military officer said the hostages numbered 20 students along with one teacher.
No one was killed during the kidnapping, officials said.
Separatists in Cameroon have been pushing for English-speaking regions to secede for decades, arguing that they lack political clout in the government, which is centered in French-speaking areas. Their movement was largely peaceful until about a year ago when security forces opened fire on unarmed protesters.
Violence in English-speaking regions of Cameroon has killed more than 400 civilians and sent tens of thousands of people fleeing across the border into Nigeria or into the forest. An American missionary was recently caught up in the violence and shot to death as he rode in his car.
Cameroon’s security forces have been accused of a heavy-handed response to the rebels, who are disorganized and carry homemade weapons. The military has burned dozens of villages and fired large caliber weapons indiscriminately, killing bystanders, according to human rights groups and numerous citizens.
Separatists have been accused of killing soldiers and carrying out violence against regular citizens who don’t support their actions.
Students have been caught in the middle during the upheaval. Many haven’t been in school for more than two years.
Separatists have long warned families to keep students at home as part of a so-called “ghost town” protest in which merchants and others were told to keep businesses closed.
Beyond the threats, the general violence in the area has kept some parents from sending children to school as they worried their sons would be wrongly accused by security forces of being members of separatist groups.
About three weeks ago some schools, including the one in Nkwen, reopened.
Military officials suspect someone working at the school in Nkwen acted as an accomplice to the kidnappers.
On Monday afternoon, factions of separatist groups laid blame for the kidnapping on each other, and on the government. Security forces blamed separatists. Disinformation has been a common theme throughout the conflict, and it was unclear exactly who was responsible.
Leaders of the Ambazonia Governing Council, which oversees one of the largest factions of separatists, issued a statement condemning the kidnappings, calling them “atrocious acts,” and suggesting they were orchestrated by a plant of the government.
The statement demanded the release of the schoolchildren and called on the government to remove troops from Anglophone regions.
Residents of English-speaking regions of Cameroon have long complained of government neglect and a lack of public resources.
Sign up for The Interpreter
Subscribe for original insights, commentary and discussions on the major news stories of the week, from columnists Max Fisher and Amanda Taub.
SIGN UP
In his 36 years in office, President Paul Biya, who was re-elected last month, and his representatives have sent French-speaking judges and teachers with poor English skills into the courts and schools of Anglophone regions.
Cameroon’s two official languages, French and English, are a remnant of a complicated colonial legacy dating to post-World War I when the League of Nations appointed France and England as joint trustees of what was then German Kamerun. Colonialists enforced their own cultures on each region.
During independence, many people in Anglophone regions felt they were treated unfairly and forced to become part of Cameroon.
The woman called an Uber car in Manhattan late one night in February to take her home to the nearby suburb of White Plains. She was exhausted and fell asleep in the back seat.
She woke to discover that the car had stopped and the driver was in the back seat with her, his hand under her shirt, touching her breast, federal prosecutors said Tuesday. The woman reached for her cellphone to call for help, but the driver grabbed it from her.
He eventually left her on the side of Interstate 95 near New Haven, prosecutors said. Her credit card was later charged $1,047.55 for a trip to Massachusetts.
The driver, Harbir Parmar, 24, of Howard Beach, Queens, was arrested Tuesday and charged with kidnapping and wire fraud, the government said. If convicted of the kidnapping charge, he could face life in prison. (Mr. Parmar did not face a charge related to the alleged touching.)
The incident, as described in a criminal complaint unsealed Tuesday in federal court in White Plains, was not only every taxi passenger’s nightmare, but it underscored a long-running debate about the screening of taxi and ride-hail drivers and whether more safeguards, like panic buttons in the back seat, are needed.
“No one — man or woman — should fear such an attack when they simply hire a car service,” Geoffrey S. Berman, the United States attorney for the Southern District of New York, said. Mr. Berman announced the charges along with William F. Sweeney Jr., the head of the F.B.I.’s New York office, and James P. O’Neill, the New York police commissioner.
“This individual’s behavior goes far beyond ride-sharing companies’ efforts to revise their ethics codes and put stronger emphasis on background checks for their drivers,” Mr. O’Neill said.
Uber said in a statement that it had “fully cooperated” with law enforcement and would support its investigation.
“What’s been reported is horrible and something no person should go through,” the company said. “As soon as we became aware, we immediately removed this individual’s access to the platform.”
The company said Mr. Parmar was blocked from the Uber app in February and had not provided a trip on Uber’s platform since then. Uber also said the woman’s fare was refunded within days.
Mr. Parmar appeared Tuesday before a magistrate judge, Judith C. McCarthy, in Federal District Court in White Plains. She set bond at $100,000, secured by $10,000 in cash from Mr. Parmar’s parents, who were in the courtroom.
“The presumption of innocence remains with my client,” Mr. Parmar’s federal defender, Susanne Brody, said after the hearing.
Throughout the court hearing, Mr. Parmar’s mother pressed her clenched fists to her pursed lips and rubbed her face with a gray scarf.
Allan J. Fromberg, a spokesman for New York City’s Taxi and Limousine Commission, said the commission had suspended Mr. Parmar’s T.L.C. license “pending the criminal case.” Mr. Fromberg said Mr. Parmar had held a T.L.C. license since December 2015.
According to the complaint, Mr. Parmar picked up the woman, who was not named, in a 2016 Toyota Highlander at about 11:30 p.m. Feb. 21.
Sign up for the New York Today Newsletter
Each morning, get the latest on New York businesses, arts, sports, dining, style and more.
SIGN UP
After the assault, she tried unsuccessfully to get her phone back from Mr. Parmar, but he denied having it, the complaint said.
Mr. Parmar returned to the front seat and resumed driving, according to the complaint. It said the woman, not recognizing her surroundings, told Mr. Parmar to drive her to White Plains or to a police station, but he refused.
Mr. Parmar ultimately stopped and left her by the side of I-95, where she memorized and later wrote down his license plate number. It was about 2 a.m. when she entered a nearby convenience store, in Branford, Conn., and called a cab to take her to White Plains, the government said.
When Mr. Parmar was interviewed by law enforcement officers in July, he said that he knew the woman had requested to be dropped off in White Plains, according to the complaint.
It was only after she fell asleep, the complaint said, that Mr. Parmar said he changed the destination on his Uber mobile app to a location in Massachusetts.
Three foreign catering workers were found shot dead outside the Afghan capital on Thursday after being kidnapped during their morning commute, the Afghan police said.
It was the latest in a yearslong series of such attacks, this time against employees of Sodexo, a global food services company that works for several international organizations in Kabul. The men killed came from India, Malaysia and Macedonia.
According to Hashmat Stanikzai, a spokesman for the Kabul Police Department, gunmen stopped the car in which the three men were being driven to work and forced them to switch to another.
But Nasrat Rahimi, a spokesman for the Afghan interior ministry, said it appeared that the men had gotten into the second car voluntarily and were accompanied by their Afghan driver. The driver returned an hour later and said the three men had been kidnapped.
Then, around midday, police officers investigating a report of a shooting in the Musahi district of Kabul Province found the three men’s bodies in the back seat of an abandoned car believed to be the one in which they were kidnapped, Mr. Rahimi said.
“We are deeply saddened and shocked to learn of the tragic loss of three of our team members in Kabul, Afghanistan, today,” the chief executive of Sodexo, Denis Machuel, said in an email. “On behalf of the Sodexo community, I want to say that our hearts are with their families, friends, and colleagues.”
It was unclear where in the city the victims had been working. Their driver was arrested and was being questioned by security forces.
The Malaysian Embassy in New Delhi confirmed the death of a Malaysian citizen in a news release, but did not identify him. The release said the kidnapping had taken place earlier in the week, but the police insisted it happened on Thursday.
There was no immediate claim of responsibility for the killings. Zabihullah Mujahid, the spokesman for the Taliban, denied in a WhatsApp message any involvement by the insurgents. Kidnappings in Kabul have been carried out by criminal gangs, as well as by the Taliban and their extremist branch, the Haqqani Network.
The list of attacks on expatriate workers in the city is a long one.
In 2014, 21 foreigners, including diplomats and aid workers, were killed in a Taliban attack on a popular restaurant. In January this year, insurgents stormed the city’s Intercontinental Hotel, with nine international airline employees among the 22 killed.
Two professors from the American University of Afghanistan were abducted by the Taliban at gunpoint in Kabul in August 2017. The Taliban then broadcast video of the professors asking for the release of insurgent prisoners in exchange for their freedom. They are believed to be alive, but no word has been heard from them in recent months.
In addition, on Tuesday, 20 people were killed and 26 wounded in an attack on the refugee department in the eastern city of Jalalabad. Many of the victims were workers for leading international and relief agencies, including the International Organization for Migration, the Norwegian Rescue Council and three others, all of them Afghans.
Federal prosecutors in Brooklyn dismantled two international cybercrime rings for defrauding digital advertisers out of more than $30 million — arresting seven Russians and a Kazakh man for running the scheme.
The crew of hackers are accused of using malware to artificially inflate the number of visitors to websites across the world in order to drive up web traffic on fake websites they owned and defraud advertisers for nonexistent business.
Between 2014 and 2016, Sergey Ovsyannikov, Aleksandr Zhukov, Boris Timokhin, Mikhail Andreev, Denis Avdeev, and Dmitry Novikov rented 1,900 computers in Dallas, Texas, per court docs. They programmed the computers to scroll through the internet and their sites like real human users — such as stopping pausing a video to and keeping a Facebook account open– in order to simulate actual human usage, prosecutors said.
Another scheme infected some 1.7 million computers “belonging to ordinary individuals” across the globe, prompting the devices to to visit the websites without the owner’s knowledge, and falsely inflate views.
As part of the take-down, the U.S. government can now seize control of 31 internet domains and execute search warrants on 89 computer servers that were part of the advertising fraud, prosecutors said.
“As alleged in court filings, the defendants in this case used sophisticated computer programming and infrastructure around the world to exploit the digital advertising industry through fraud,” United States Attorney for the Eastern District Richard Donoghue said in a statement. “This case sends a powerful message that this Office, together with our law enforcement partners, will use all our available resources to target and dismantle these costly schemes and bring their perpetrators to justice, wherever they are.”
Ovsyannikov, Zhukov, Timokhin have been arrested in Malaysia, Bulgaria, and Estonia, and are awaiting extradition to Brooklyn. The others remain at large.
They’re variously facing charges wire fraud, computer intrusion, aggravated identity theft and money laundering.
Three years ago, Inna Simone logged on to her computer, expecting to see her standard Microsoft desktop. What she encountered instead was unsettling.
“Windows along a narrow bar at the screen’s bottom were minimized; they blinked nonstop and the computer made a low-grade buzzing sound,” Simone tells The Post. “I thought something was very wrong.”
Hoping that it was just a glitch, the 70-year-old Russia-born retiree, who lives near Boston, let the computer be and departed on a planned weekend vacation. But when she returned, “there was a message that my files had been encrypted and that I [would] have to install Tor” — the untraceable browser of choice for dark-web denizens — “if I [wanted] the files back,” Simone says.
Simone was the victim of a ransomware attack: a type of cyber robbery wherein hackers lock you out of your own computer files and refuse to return them — unless you pony up hundreds or thousands of dollars. One out of 10 computer users has faced a ransomware attack, according to a survey of 20,000 people conducted by security-software maker Symantec.
As instructed, Simone downloaded Tor, and then she received another message. “I had one week to pay $500 in bitcoin. After one week, it [would] become $1,000. After two weeks, the files [would] be gone for good. I keep pictures of my granddaughter on the computer and I wanted them back!”
With help from her daughter in New York, Simone managed to secure the bitcoin. When she was ready to pay the fee, she clicked into the hackers’ one-way chat. (Yes, like Verizon, they have customer-service chat boxes. “It sounds ridiculous, but it’s true,” says Simone.) A snowstorm put her a few hours behind schedule, but she reasoned with her computer captors until they agreed not to charge her the late fee and unlocked her files. Relieved, but still furious, she signed off by cursing them in her native tongue: “I hope you all die.”
“It sounds worse in Russian than it does in English,” she says.
Simone’s situation sounds dramatic enough to hold an episode of “Homeland” — in fact, the ransoming of Carrie Mathison’s top-secret computer files drove a plot point on the Showtime series last season. But ransomware attacks are all too common in the real world, says Damon McCoy, an assistant professor at NYU.
“Over a two-year period, we saw 20,000 people making ransomware payments for a total of $16 million,” says McCoy, who worked on a study that followed bitcoin trails to track ransomware payments. “And our numbers are conservative.”
Law enforcement is often powerless to help, either because the viruses are too complex to crack or because the hackers reside in foreign countries with uncooperative governments.
And it’s not just individuals who face cyber threats. Last month, the administrative systems of the Port of San Diego were hit by hackers. In 2017, Erie County Medical Center’s computers were besieged; the Buffalo-based organization spent $10 million to beef up its infrastructure rather than pay a $30,000 ransom in order to get its files unencrypted.
Modal TriggerDamon McCoyTamara Beckwith/NY Post
When the computer system of Barnes Law in Tulsa, Okla., had 15 years worth of documents encrypted by cyber crooks, founder Ron Barnes made a sound business decision.
“I was devastated, and we paid them the $750 or so that they demanded,” Barnes, who regained access to his data, tells The Post. “They made it an amount of money that I would be willing to lose if [the hackers] didn’t give us our files back.” While the $750 sum may not sound like much, it can add up fast for hackers, Barnes points out. “They can hit a million businesses and half may agree to the $750. Then they just sit back and collect.”
There are a number of ways people and businesses can expose themselves to ransomware. Barnes believes that he got attacked when his system’s firewall temporarily went down for an upgrade. On home computers, malware, short for malicious software, is usually to blame. These programs, which can turn over control of your computer to an outside party, commonly invade when people click on suspicious email links, go to shady sites for free movie downloads or simply try to watch something fun online. Simone is not sure how she got hacked, though she says it could have come via a fake software update.
Experts have a few strategies to help you protect yourself from ransomware. But if the worst comes to pass, and hackers do hijack your machine, there’s always the customer-service chat box. As Simone’s case proves, the hackers just might be willing to work with you to get their cash.
“Ransomware guys have been known to take pity,” says McCoy. “Tell them a sob story and they may give you a break. They are human.”
Facebook’s latest data breach doesn’t just affect the social network — but loads of other sites too.
If you use Facebook to log into other services — like Instagram or Tinder — then Facebook hack attackers may have stolen all of your profile info, photos, private messages and more.
On Friday evening, Facebook revealed that hackers were given access to 50 million accounts.
This let them use your Facebook account “as if they were the account holder” — a shocking security breach.
But because of the way the hack worked, it also gave attackers the same level of access to any accounts you use Facebook to log in with.
So if you tied your Facebook to Messenger, Instagram, Spotify, Tinder or Airbnb, just to name a few, hackers will have been able to slip into those accounts too.
It’s all thanks to a major screw-up in Facebook’s code.
When you log into websites like Facebook, you are given an access token.
Access tokens are like digital keys that remind the website — and other linked services — that you’re logged in.
That’s why when you close the Facebook tab and open it up again later, you’re still logged in.
If you have an access token, you don’t need to enter your username and password — because it means you’re already logged into the website.
But last June, Facebook added a new video uploader tool that introduced a major bug.
The bug allowed hackers to generate access tokens for absolutely anyone on the website.
Unsurprisingly, hackers used this bug to create access tokens for 50 million users across the site.
Importantly, if you log into other services with Facebook, this access token would treat you as being logged into those services too.
So it doesn’t matter how strong your password was, or whether two-factor authentication was set up.
The hack allowed attackers to convince these websites that they were already logged in — sneaking onto your account under the radar.
The only way to actually avoid being caught up in this hack was to (1) not have a Facebook account, or (2) get lucky, and not be targeted by the hackers.
The hackers were also given complete access (as if they were you, effectively), and so could have accessed any part of your accounts.
“Because this issue impacted access tokens, it’s worth highlighting that these are the equivalent of a username and password combination but are used by applications to authenticate against other applications,” said Tim Mackey, senior technical evangelist at Synopsys.
“If you’ve ever used a Facebook login button on a website, now would be an excellent time for Facebook users to review their App Settings to see which applications and games they’ve granted access rights to within Facebook.”
The big fear is that hackers will have used automatic tools to harvest information from all 50 million accounts that were compromised.
This means it’s possible that hackers are currently sitting on photos, videos, and private messages for tens of millions of people around the world.
This data pool grows significantly when you add services like Tinder or Instagram into the mix.
And even if you weren’t hacked yourself, messages you sent to people who were hacked may still be caught up in the hack.
This significantly increases the risk of identity fraud, blackmail, and even lost relationships.
If you’ve ever sent racy photos, made mean comments, or moaned about an employer on your Facebook — or in private messages — hackers may be ready and waiting to release this information right now.
Hackers could also use the information they stole to defraud you, potentially gaining access to your bank accounts or other important services.
“Today, consumers should be working under the assumption that their private information has been stolen by hackers 10 times over,” said Sam Curry, chief security officer at Cybereason.
“Today, consumers are reminded again to watch their identities and credit for abuse.”
“As an industry until we can start making cybercrime unprofitable for adversaries, they will continue to hold the cards that will yield potentially massive payouts.”
Police in Spain have captured a cybercrime gang made up of Ukrainians and Russians that allegedly stole more than $1.24 billion from financial institutions worldwide in a five-year spree, authorities said Monday.
The gang’s alleged mastermind, identified as a Ukrainian and named only as “Denis K.,” was arrested in the coastal city of Alicante, 220 miles southeast of Madrid, according to statements issued by Spanish police and European Union law enforcement agency Europol.
Three suspected accomplices, said to be Russian and Ukrainian, were also arrested, Spanish authorities said. In Ukraine, police said that an unidentified 30-year-old man linked to the gang was cooperating with authorities.
The hackers — whose activities have long been tracked by security researchers — used malware to target more than 100 financial institutions worldwide, sometimes stealing up to 10 million euros in each heist. Almost all of Russia’s banks were targeted, and about 50 of them lost money in the electronic robberies, authorities said.
The gang used well-worn techniques such as booby trapped emails to break into banks and compromise the networks controlling ATMs, effectively turning the machines into free cash dispensers.
Ross Rustici, a senior director at Boston-based digital security firm Cybereason, said the gang stood out from others because of the amount of care and planning it put into operations.
Phishing attacks aren’t nearly as successful as they used to be because by now people have learned to look out for the emails that ask them to provide sensitive details. While this is true for emails, it seems that pioneer attackers have embraced other ways of utilizing phishing attacks, namely through messaging services such as WhatsApp, Skype, and even plain old SMS.
Mobile Phishing
Mobile phishing is an issue that shows no signs of abating anytime soon. According to Verizon, 90% of their recorded data breaches began with a phishing attack and right now mobile is an increasingly common attack vector. 
Recent research from Wandera shows a new trend among cyber-criminals toward mobile phishing. Every day, dozens of new attacks are detected and many of them last less than a day before being shut down and relocated elsewhere. These phishing attacks share many standard features, notably centering around the use of WhatsApp.
Distribution Methods
Now that there is a widespread awareness of the dangers email-based phishing attacks bring, many savvy cyber-criminals are instead moving on to using other vectors that allow them to attack mobile devices. Many of such attacks center on WhatsApp as both the initial method of delivery and the way to reach more targets after every single success. 
It isn’t just the awareness that has led to this shift. Email clients and providers have many built-in tools that identify any potential phishing emails and alert the user or automatically delete the email.
In contrast, there are no such security measures for SMS, or for app-based messaging services. Given the sheer number of different messaging apps out there, it is challenging to develop a catch-all defense against mobile phishing attacks. This results in mobile-based attacks being at least three times more effective than the phishing that takes place through desktop. Without any doubt, mobile providers should make further investments into raising cybersecurity awareness and improving it on mobile.
Exploiting WhatsApp
Unlike with phishing emails, which are often flagged as potentially malicious, there is no filtering or alert system on WhatsApp either. When a user receives a link on WhatsApp, it usually generates a preview of that website’s logo and page title. These are easy for an attacker to fake but might give a phishing message enough of a veneer of legitimacy for the user to get caught off guard.
Malicious Domains
The links that phishing messages contain often look legitimate. However, if the user clicks through, they will be taken to a page that also appears legitimate but, in fact, is owned by the attackers. These phishing pages often resemble the login pages of the websites and services the user visits regularly. However, this isn’t always the case. For example, some phishing pages present the user with the opportunity to claim a prize, or to make a purchase at a massively discounted price.
Whatever the specific setup of the malicious page, its goal is to encourage the user to hand over their personal information the attacker can exploit in some way. Just as phishing emails have become more sophisticated, so have the web pages used to phish victims. Many of them are now incorporated into Facebook comments and other social media features that give the impression of a dynamic webpage with a legitimate function.
How to Stay Safe
So, how can you defend yourself against these phishing attacks? Being vigilant is the most important thing. If it seems strange that a particular service is messaging you and asking for personal information, don’t hand it over! Only ever give your login details when you have approached the service yourself, not when they come to you asking for them.
It is also a good idea to get yourself a VPN which will protect you someway from spear phishing attacks. These are phishing messages and websites that have been crafted for a specific individual.
Generally, attackers that use spear phishing will know their target and what message to use to lull them into a false sense of security. 
It perhaps isn’t surprising that enterprising cybercriminals are making in-roads in the mobile space. However, the awareness of this particular type of attacks remains low. Be wary of any unsolicited messages you receive from an online service, and don’t trust a link that you didn’t ask for.


“They’re unusual in how slow and methodical they are and how organized they are,” Rustici said. Other groups use similar techniques in isolation, “but nobody before them had strung all those things together on such a scale,” he said.
Authorities said that the gang converted its illicit gains into bitcoins and used the cryptocurrency to purchase big ticket items, including houses and vehicles, in Spain.
Rustici said it seemed likely the gang members botched their effort to launder their ill-gotten gains.
“That’s usually what happens with these who are very good on the network side, they make mistakes on the money side,” he said. “You can’t buy a nice villa on the Mediterranean with cryptocurrency. Or at least not yet.”
The advanced persistent threat (APT) group GreyEnergy has been targeting industrial networks across Ukraine and Eastern Europe for years, and according to analysis of the group’s activity, the attacks begin with a malicious document sent in a phishing email.
Nozomi Networks performed analysis on the GreyEnergy advanced ICS malware and found that the tools and tactics used by the threat actors allowed the group to stay under the radar of typical anomaly detection tools for a long time.
Found in Ukraine and Poland, the GreyEnergy ICS malware successfully infected its targets using a phishing email that included a suspicious looking – and indeed malicious – word document written in Ukranian, according to Alessandro Di Pinto, security researcher at Nozomi Networks. While there is a security warning at the top of the page, within the security warning is a box asking the user to "enable content" – a clear attempt to trick the user.
The message also encourages viewers to fill in the fake interactive form included within the email. While the phishing email is common, “The malware’s code is anything but common – it is well written and smartly put together and is designed to defeat detection by cybersecurity products,” Di Pinto wrote.
In analyzing how the document works, Di Pinto found that once opened, it tries to load a remote image, which happens before the viewer enables the macros. The malicious code is easily decompressed and extracted using the oledump tool, according to Di Pinto.
“Having completed my analysis, it’s evident that the GreyEnergy packer does a great job of slowing down the reverse engineering process. The techniques used are not new, but both the tools and the tactics employed were wisely selected,” Di Pinto wrote.
“For example, the threat actor chose to implement custom algorithms that are not too difficult to defeat, but they are hard enough to protect the malicious payload. Additionally, the broad use of anti-forensic techniques, such as the wiping of in-memory strings, underline the attacker’s attempt to stay stealthy and have the infection go unnoticed."
Cybercriminals have a new scam that has already taken in 65 companies throughout the state and harvested more than 7,000 employees’ Social Security numbers.
Posing as company executives, the crooks send email messages to payroll and human resource workers requesting lists of employees and their personal information.
The State Department Of Taxation and Finance says several industries were affected, including healthcare, legal services and manufacturing.
Social Security numbers for 7,100 employees from New York City, the Capital District, Central New York and Western New York were turned over to the cyber crooks.
The emails appear legitimate because they contain the name of the company’s chief executive officer.
“If you receive such an email, don’t respond even if the sender continues to send emails demanding information,” the Tax Department said in a warning released Friday. “Never provide any payroll data, such as W-2 forms and Social Security numbers, through email.”
Three Chinese nationals were charged with hacking into the private email accounts of major US law firms and helping themselves to juicy tips on upcoming mergers.
The trespassing trio then used the tips to trade stocks of the companies pegged for acquisition to earn a nifty — but very illegal — $4 million in profits in less than two years, it is alleged.
One of the three men — 26-year-old Iat Hong from Macau — was arrested on Christmas Day after he dared set foot in neighboring Hong Kong, which has an extradition treaty with the US.
Hong currently is in custody awaiting extradition proceedings to the US.
The other two men — Bo Zheng, 30, of Changsha, China, and Chin Hung, 50, of Macau — remain at large.
All three were charged Tuesday in a 13-count federal criminal indictment and sued civilly by the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The feds said the men learned about the still-confidential mergers by hacking into the computers of seven law firms.
Info was taken from two firms, it is alleged.
In one deal, the men allegedly learned in the summer of 2014 that an unnamed pharmaceutical company wanted to buy rival InterMune for $67 a share. Although that deal fell apart, InterMune’s shares hit $74 after it was bought by Roche.
Hong and Zheng earned more than $393,000 trading InterMune’s stock in the weeks leading up to the Roche merger announcement, the feds said.
The alleged cyberthieves also got advance warning in 2015 of Intel’s $16.7 billion deal to buy chip maker Altera. They made a whopping $1.4 million trading Altera’s stock ahead of the deal becoming public, it is charged.
The men are also accused of hacking into a US-based robotics company in an effort to steal “proprietary and confidential schematic designs of a robotic vacuum.”
The hacked law firms were not named, but firms involved in the deals cited by prosecutors include Cravath Swaine & Moore and Weil Gotshal & Manges, which the Wall Street Journal had reported were hacked earlier this year.
Hong was charged on nine counts, including conspiracy and securities fraud. He faces a maximum 110 years if convicted.
A Winnipeg man who was charged with aggravated assault in a Nov. 21 incident on Portage Avenue has been re-arrested with charges upgraded to manslaughter after the victim died from her injuries.
Calvin Oliver Harper, 50, remains in custody at the Winnipeg Remand Centre and now faces manslaughter charges in the death of Annie Little.
READ MORE: Assault in north end Winnipeg leaves man, 30, in critical condition
Police said Little, 53, was taken to hospital in the early hours of Nov. 21 in critical condition, suffering from severe upper-body injuries. She died Nov. 23.
Edward Kyle Roberts pleaded guilty to two counts of manslaughter on Monday in connection with the two-year-old stabbing deaths of a man and woman in Edmonton.
He was originally charged with first-degree murder in the death of the elderly couple.
Roberts was 30 years old in September 2016 when he broke into the home of Pedro Avalos and stole a steak knife.
According to an agreed statement of facts, a neighbour saw him acting suspiciously and called police.
Roberts continued wandering the neighbourhood and walked a few doors down before breaking into another home. That home belonged to 93-year-old Joao Nascimento and his 81-year-old wife, Maria Nascimento.
Another neighbour went to check on the Nascimentos and saw Roberts inside the house, wielding a knife. Roberts told the neighbour he bought the house and was the new owner but the man knew that was not the case. This information was relayed to police.
The Nascimentos had been married for 40 years. They were well-known by their neighbours and were avid gardeners.
According to an agreed statement of facts, Roberts broke down their front door and stabbed the couple repeatedly using the stolen steak knife.
When officers arrived, they contained the home and eventually used flashbangs to scare Roberts, allowing them to get inside.
On Monday, court heard that when Roberts was arrested by police, he was in a psychotic mental state after consuming “intoxicating substances,” however, the Crown and defence disagreed over whether mental illness also played a role in Roberts’ violent acts.
Witnesses in the area at the time described Roberts as being “whacked out and confused.” They said he was wearing shorts and a T-shirt when it was very cold outside. They also said his eyes were wide open and looking in all directions without focusing on anything.
During an interview with police, Roberts said he “stole the knife from the house to complete the mission of killing the old people.”
A sentencing hearing continues for the rest of the week and then will continue in the spring.
Roberts remains in custody.
A man has pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the 2016 death of Edmonton mixed martial arts fighter Ryan Jimmo.
Anthony Getschel was originally charged with second-degree murder in Jimmo’s death but pleaded guilty to the lesser charge in an Edmonton courtroom on Monday morning.
According to an agreed statement of facts, Getschel was out drinking at an Edmonton bar the night of June 26, 2016. He was involved in a fight at the bar, which ended with him being knocked to the ground.
Getschel and two others then left the bar and got into a 1998 GMC Sierra pickup truck.
At around 2 a.m., the truck was heading west on Whyte Avenue in the area of 101 Street when it came up behind a 2008 Jeep Patriot, driven by Jimmo.
Jimmo, who used to live in Edmonton, was visiting the city from Arizona with his girlfriend. The pair had just been to a movie and was out touring the city.
READ MORE: MMA fighter Ryan Jimmo remembered as a ‘gentle soul’
Feeling the truck behind him was driving aggressively, Jimmo turned into a nearby strip mall parking lot — but the truck followed.
Jimmo stopped his Jeep and got out of the vehicle. He approached the driver’s side of the truck, slapped the window and challenged Getschel and his male passenger to a fight.
A verbal exchange followed, but Getschel and his passengers stayed inside the truck. The verbal exchange continued as Jimmo walked back to his vehicle.
As he was standing beside the driver’s door of the Jeep, Jimmo heard shouting coming from the truck. He turned to look back at the truck as it came speeding over two concrete parking curbs. The truck then struck Jimmo “at speed,” according to the agreed statement of facts, “dragging him out in front of the Jeep.”
Knowing he had struck Jimmo, Getschel continued driving out of the parking lot and onto Whyte Avenue, nearly hitting another vehicle. The truck then drove east in the westbound lanes of Whyte Ave., eventually crossing the median into the correct lanes of traffic.
Witnesses in the parking lot called 911 and were able to wave down a police vehicle that was driving down Whyte Ave.
Jimmo was lying on the ground, conscious but badly injured. Police provided first aid until fire and EMS crews arrived at around 2:20 a.m. Jimmo was taken by ambulance to the University of Alberta Hospital, but on the way to the hospital he went into cardiac arrest.
While emergency crews attempted to resuscitate him, Jimmo was pronounced dead at the hospital.
READ MORE: Ex-UFC fighter identified as victim of deadly hit and run in Edmonton
Meanwhile, Getschel dropped off his passengers and hid the truck in Mill Creek Ravine. He took a taxi home, told a family member his truck had been stolen and went to bed.
The following morning, Getschel woke up and told the same family member what happened the previous night. He went and got his truck and took it to a registry office where he reported that his licence plate had been stolen in order to get a new plate.
The following Monday morning, Getschel left for a job in Fort McMurray. He returned to Edmonton later that night and at 1 a.m. Tuesday, Getschel turned himself in to police.
An autopsy revealed Jimmo, 34, died of multiple blunt force and crush injuries, consistent with being run over by a vehicle.
Jimmo was only in Edmonton for a couple of days before he was killed. During his MMA career, Jimmo made his sensational UFC debut (at UFC 149) in Calgary in July 2012. Fighting as a light heavyweight, he tied the record for the organization’s fastest knockout when he dispatched Anthony Perosh in just seven seconds.
Jimmo was also a champion in the Edmonton-based Maximum Fighting Championship and he appeared in the eighth season of The Ultimate Fighter.
Getschel, who was crying in the prisoner’s box Monday, will be back in court on Dec. 3 for a sentencing hearing.
In June 2016, Jordan Wagner was charged with accessory after the fact to murder in the incident.
Global News has put in an inquiry to see where the charge against Wagner stands and will update this story once the information is known.
A 16-year-old has been found guilty of manslaughter in the death of a Mac’s convenience store clerk in 2015.
The youth was originally charged and tried for first-degree murder in the death of Ricky Cenabre. A judge found the youth not guilty of the charge in an Edmonton courtroom Friday, but guilty of a lesser charge of manslaughter.
The boy was 13 at the time and cannot be named under the Youth Criminal Justice Act.
The youth’s auntie described him as a little boy in a big boy’s body who is sorry for what happened. She said the entire family is relieved he was found not guilty of first-degree murder and guilty of manslaughter instead.
Defence lawyer Akram Attia said he and his client are also pleased with the verdict.
“We feel it was the right decision both on law and circumstances and the evidence presented in this case,” he said outside court on Friday afternoon. “It was always our position that this was a manslaughter.”
In the early morning hours of Dec. 18, 2015, two Mac’s store workers – Cenabre, 41, and Karanpal Bhangu, 35, – were shot to death in two robberies at two separate Mac’s locations in south Edmonton.
The fatal shootings were brutal, with police calling them executions.
While the 13-year-old was not the shooter, the Crown argued that he was part of the robbery and that after the first killing he should have known what was going to happen at the second Mac’s store. In its argument for a first-degree murder conviction, the Crown said this showed planning and deliberation.
On Friday, the judge disagreed, saying there was no evidence from surveillance tapes or witnesses to suggest the youth knew the victims were struck by gunfire. The judge also ruled the boy’s youth played a role in the decision.
READ MORE: Defence lawyer says teen charged with murder of Edmonton Mac’s sales clerk wasn’t in store when shot was fired
The verdict comes after the teen pleaded guilty last month to manslaughter in the death of Bhangu, plus two counts of robbery with a restricted or prohibited weapon and two counts of being disguised in both deaths.
At the same time, he pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in Cenabre’s death.
READ MORE: 16-year-old pleads guilty to one of two killings at Edmonton Mac’s stores
Attia said Friday his client has “lost the formative years of his life being in custody,” but hopes they can reconnect him with older family members for a positive influence in his life.
“He cried upon his arrest and wanted to talk to his brother so he was clearly adversely affected by all of this. Hopefully, as I indicated, moving forward we can get this man some help.”
A date for sentencing has not been set. Under the Youth Criminal Justice Act, manslaughter carries a maximum sentence of three years. The boy has been in custody since his arrest nearly three years ago, so it’s possible he could soon be released.
Two men were also accused in connection to the deaths. One of them, Laylin Delorme, was convicted of two counts of first-degree murder earlier this year. The other, Colton Steinhauer, has not yet been tried.
A man from Berens River is facing a manslaughter charge after a woman from the same northern Manitoba community was assaulted in June and died from her injuries last month.
On June 22, RCMP were called to a report of an injured woman at a residence within the community.\
READ MORE: ‘Less lethal’ firearm use by Thompson RCMP under investigation
When they arrived, officers found a 57-year-old woman from Berens River with serious injuries sustained during an assault.
She was taken to hospital in Winnipeg in serious condition and later died from her injuries on Sept. 26.
On Friday, officers arrested 22-year-old Anthony McKay from Berens River and charged him with manslaughter.
McKay was already in custody at the time of his arrest and he has been remanded back into custody.
He is scheduled to appear in Winnipeg provincial court Sunday.
A sentencing hearing is underway for a Manitoba father convicted of manslaughter in the death of his 21-month-old daughter.
A jury found Daniel Williams guilty in February in the 2014 death of Kierra Elektra Starr Williams on Peguis First Nation.
READ MORE: Manitoba father found guilty of manslaughter in death of toddler
Court heard Williams didn’t do anything to keep his child safe from her mother.
At the time of her death, Kierra’s body showed signs of months of abuse — she was malnourished and had broken bones.
Her mother, Vanessa Bushie, received a life sentence with no chance of parole for 14 years for second-degree murder last year.
The Crown is asking for a nine-year sentence while the defence says Williams could never have foreseen Kierra’s death.
A 15-year-old boy who pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the death of a northern Saskatchewan restaurant owner has been given the maximum youth sentence of three years in custody.
The youth was 14 at the time of Simon Grant‘s killing last April and was charged with second-degree murder, but pleaded guilty to the lesser charge of manslaughter in December.
Grant, 64, was attacked at his Louisiana’s Bar-B-Que restaurant in La Ronge and died in hospital two days later.
Another youth, who is now 18, has pleaded guilty to manslaughter and is awaiting sentencing. The Crown is seeking an adult sentence, but has also requested psychiatric, psychological and pre-sentence reports.
Austin Bird, 19, pleaded guilty to manslaughter last October and was given a seven-year prison sentence,
A charge of accessory after the fact against an 18-year-old man was stayed in November.
A 10-year-old Florida boy beat his 2-year-old cousin until she suffered severe head trauma and died three days later, police said Wednesday.
Medical examiners in Marion County, roughly 100 miles north of Orlando, ruled the June death of Journee Blyden a homicide, WFTV reported shortly after her death. Witnesses had initially said Journee fell out of her playpen, according to the Marion County Sheriff's Office.
Yet another little girl later told investigators the as-yet-unidentified 10-year-old boy physically abused her and Journee when the three were unsupervised, deputies said.
After a thorough investigation and an interview of the witnesses involved, detectives determined that the 10-year-old caused the 2-year-old's extensive and ultimately fatal injuries," officials in the sheriff's office said in a statement.
The boy told deputies he was running while carrying Journee and fell on the kitchen floor at her family's Silver Springs Shores home June 21. He said he had also placed Journee on a counter then "accidentally" pushed her off of it, according to the sheriff's office.
Journee's sustained injuries so severe an emergency crew had to airlift her from Ocala Regional Medical Center to University of Florida Health in Gainesville, investigators said. She died June 24.
Medical examiners concluded that the boy's account did not square with Journee's trauma, according to the sheriff's office. Coroners ruled her injuries "would have taken excessive force to create," deputies said.
The 10-year-old boy was arrested and booked on charges of aggravated manslaughter of a child. He was incarcerated in juvenile detention ahead of his first court appearance Thursday.
Journee's father, Kendall Blyden, was behind bars at the time of her death on murder and aggravated child abuse charges, the Orlando Sentinel reported. He had been arrested in October 2014 in connection with the death of his girlfriend's 1-year-old son.
Pukatawagan RCMP have charged a local man with manslaughter in the June death of an 18-year-old in the northern Manitoba community.
The teen victim was transported to the Pukatawagan Nursing Station, where he was pronounced dead, on the evening of June 8.
Nikosis Bighetty, 20, was arrested and charged Thursday. He was taken into custody and is scheduled to appear in The Pas Provincial Court on Monday.
READ MORE: Pukatawagan RCMP asking for help finding missing man
RCMP have determined that the accused and the victim were known to each other and both lived in Pukatawagan.
Local RCMP and the RCMP’s Major Crimes Service continue the investigation.
A 16-year-old boy accused of first-degree murder in the December 2015 shooting death of a Mac’s employee was not even in the convenience store when the fatal shot was fired, his defence argued in written closing statements presented to the trial judge on Wednesday.
Early on Dec. 18, 2015, two convenience store clerks – Ricky Cenabre, 41, and Karanpal Bhangu, 35 – were shot to death at two separate convenience stores in south Edmonton.
The boy was 13 at the time of the shootings and cannot be named under the Youth Criminal Justice Act.
He has pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the death of Bhangu as well as to two counts of robbery with a restricted or prohibited weapon and two counts of being disguised in both deaths.
However, earlier this week, the teen pleaded not guilty to first-degree murder in the death of Cenabre.
After submitting its closing arguments, the defence and Crown answered questions from the judge in an Edmonton courtroom on Wednesday. The defence said that surveillance video from the scene of the second shooting — where Cenabre was killed — clearly shows the teen was not in the store when the shot was fired, although they conceded he was in the store in the early stages of that robbery.
“The three accused left the till area,” the defence’s closing arguments read. “Delorme handed the gun to Steinhauer. Steinhauer reached over and shot Mr. Cenabre who later died as a result of the gunshot wound.
“The young person had exited the store prior to the shooting.”
In its written closing arguments, the Crown said “the only issue of this trial is… [the teen’s] culpability with respect to Cenabre’s death.”
“The Crown submits that this Court could find… [the teen] guilty as a party to the manslaughter of Cenabre but there is sufficient evidence that… [the teen] is guilty as a party to the more serious offence of first-degree murder.”
While much of the Crown and defence’s version of events is similar with regard to Cenabre’s death, the Crown argued the teen played a significant role in that clerk’s death because at one point, towards the end of the robbery, the Crown says he “pushed Cenabre back into the till area.”
The Crown agrees the teen had left the store before Cenabre was shot at close range, but said he left only “seconds earlier.”
Even though the teen has pleaded guilty to manslaughter in Bhangu’s death, the defence said there is no evidence the accused caused the death of either clerk and also suggested there is no evidence to suggest the teen even knew Bhangu had been shot. They said it was not clear if the accused saw that shooting.
The defence argued Delorme, Steinhauer and the teen entered the store and Delorme immediately pointed a gun at Bhangu and the three robbed the store while also hitting Bhangu with the gun and their fists.
“The young person specifically hit Mr. Bhangu at least once,” the defence’s closing argument reads. “All three turned to leave the cashier area. Delorme turned and fired the gun in the direction of Mr. Bhangu. At this time, the young person’s gaze was towards the entrance/exit of the store and he is hurrying towards it.”
The defence also highlighted the teen’s age and lack of maturity, pointing out he was crying and asked to call his brother when he was arrested.
“He was 13 years old at the time of the offence,” the defence’s closing arguments read. “Courts have held that ‘it is common knowledge that lack of life experience affects the level of maturity and can affect the ability of youths to foresee the consequences of their actions.'”
There’s no denying Shaylin Sutherland-Kayseas fatally shot Dylan Phillips on the evening of Oct. 14, 2016 in Saskatoon. The decision, now in the hands of the judge, will be whether or not what she did was in association to or for the benefit of the Terror Squad.
During the two-week first-degree murder trial, the defence and Crown have vigorously gone head-to-head, point-for-point on evidence presented in court. Closing arguments at Court of Queen’s Bench on Friday were no different.
The defence hotly contested Phillips’ death was a tragic accident and this is a case of manslaughter.
While the accused identified herself as a five-year member of the Terror Squad on the stand, her legal counsel argued her individual actions shouldn’t be linked back to the gang.
“Just because you’re in a gang doesn’t mean you’ve committed all your crimes for the benefit of the gang,” defence attorney Jessie Buydens said.
Court heard the accused didn’t know the victim prior to the 2016 shooting.
It’s alleged Phillips may have been dealing drugs in Terror Squad territory around the time of the home invasion.
“They went to get drugs and unfortunately Dylan Phillips was shot but I don’t think there was planning, I don’t think there was deliberation. I think it was an unfortunate accident,” Buydens said.
A 22-year-old man has been charged with manslaughter in connection with an assault at a downtown Edmonton bar earlier this month that left a senior dead.
Police said Mohamed Ahmed Sassi was arrested on Friday morning in Edmonton in connection with the incident before being charged.
“With any investigation, the co-operation of witnesses is the single biggest factor in police being able to successfully close any case,” said Det. Kurt Martin with the Edmonton Police Service’s Homicide Section in a news release on Saturday. “It is because of the courage of the witnesses who came forward that we were able to get some resolution for the victim’s family.”
Officers responded to the Central Social Hall at 109 Street and Jasper Avenue at 1:30 a.m. on Saturday, Sept. 8 after an assault was reported.
READ MORE: Police investigate homicide after assault at downtown Edmonton bar
When police arrived at the scene, they found an injured 74-year-old man.
“The male was treated and transported by EMS to the hospital with injuries that did not appear to be life-threatening at the time,” police said. He died of his injuries a week later.
An autopsy on Tuesday determined the man was the victim of a homicide. Police have not released the victim’s name.
Even though a charge has been laid, police said their investigation into the death is ongoing.
Witnesses to the assault or the events leading up to it are urged to contact police at 780.423.4567 or #377 from a mobile phone.
There’s no denying Shaylin Sutherland-Kayseas fatally shot Dylan Phillips on the evening of Oct. 14, 2016 in Saskatoon. The decision, now in the hands of the judge, will be whether or not what she did was in association to or for the benefit of the Terror Squad.
During the two-week first-degree murder trial, the defence and Crown have vigorously gone head-to-head, point-for-point on evidence presented in court. Closing arguments at Court of Queen’s Bench on Friday were no different.
The defence hotly contested Phillips’ death was a tragic accident and this is a case of manslaughter.
While the accused identified herself as a five-year member of the Terror Squad on the stand, her legal counsel argued her individual actions shouldn’t be linked back to the gang.
“Just because you’re in a gang doesn’t mean you’ve committed all your crimes for the benefit of the gang,” defence attorney Jessie Buydens said.
The Crown vehemently disagreed, arguing in court the accused not only lived and breathed for the Terror Squad, but in this case she killed for the gang.
“I think in the totality of the circumstances I think it’s rather disingenuous to say ‘Oh we did it on our own’ when we can hear them in their own phone call describing this as having gone on a mission,” senior Crown prosecutor Melodi Kujawa said.
Court heard the accused didn’t know the victim prior to the 2016 shooting.
It’s alleged Phillips may have been dealing drugs in Terror Squad territory around the time of the home invasion.
“They went to get drugs and unfortunately Dylan Phillips was shot but I don’t think there was planning, I don’t think there was deliberation. I think it was an unfortunate accident,” Buydens said.
The family of a caregiver who died in a foster home fire in the City of Kawartha Lakes last year has launched a $5-million lawsuit, alleging negligence from the home owner, the province and a girl contributed to her death.
READ MORE: Teen sentenced 25 months for fatal foster home fire in City of Kawartha Lakes
Andrea Reid, 43, and 14-year-old foster resident Kassy Finbow, died on Feb. 17, 2017, in a fire at a Connor Homes foster home in Oakwood on Quaker Road, about 20 kilometres west of Lindsay.
A criminal court hearing in March revealed the blaze was set in the main floor kitchen area, quickly spread, trapping the two in a room upstairs.
An investigation by The Toronto Star revealed doors in the room had been bolted shut and upper windows were too small for the occupants to escape.
Reid’s husband Robert and her three children are suing for financial losses and the loss of Reid’s “care, guidance and companionship.”
In March, a girl from a Northern Ontario First Nation admitted in court to lighting the fire as part of an emotional outburst when informed she would not be able to return home when she turned age 18. She cannot be identified as she was 17 at the time of the incident.
She pleaded guilty to manslaughter and assault causing bodily harm and was sentenced to 19 months custody followed by six months of community supervision. The girl had originally been charged with two counts of second-degree murder and one count of arson causing bodily harm.
The teen, diagnosed with schizophrenia and fetal alcohol syndrome, was known for violent outbursts, court heard.
The lawsuit alleges that the foster home was a “fire-trap” that offered little chance of escape. None of the allegations made in the lawsuit have been proven in court.
The claim says Reid and Finbow “didn’t have any chance to escape,” alleging a series of negligent acts by the owners and operators of the home including:
* Providing a lighter to the girl who started the fire “despite knowing it wasn’t safe to do so”
* Breaching their duty of care by failing to take reasonable care to ensure Reid would be reasonably safe while on the premises
* Failing to be aware of “insufficient” fire escapes
* Failing to ensure that the property complied with the Ontario Building Code and municipal regulations
In a statement to CHEX News, Connor Homes founder and president Bob Connor said the lawsuit is against his insurance company. His company operates private group and foster care homes in Central Ontario which are licensed under the province.
The lawsuit also names the Ministry of Children, Community and Social Services and alleges the ministry was negligent for:
* Failing to enact regulations and practices that would see foster homes regularly inspected
* Failing to regularly inspect the home for safety violations before renewing its licence
* Failing to ensure that the home had an appropriate amount of exits especially in the case of a fire
In response, the Ministry emailed a statement to CHEX News saying it “continues to focus on creating better outcomes for children and youth.”
However, the Ministry would not comment further on “matters that are, or may be before the courts.”
The lawsuit also names the individual that set the fire and alleges she was negligent for:
* Setting a fire in the kitchen that she was unable to control
* Allowing the fire to get out of hand despite having an opportunity to extinguish it
* Failing to alert others in the home to the presence of the fire
* Failing to contact emergency services to deal with the fire
The lawsuit is expected to be heard in court in Lindsay.
“By holding all these parties accountable and by seeking substantial damages this case has the potential to ensure that something like this doesn’t ever happen again in a group foster home in Ontario,” added Jim Vigmond of Oatley Vigmond in the release.
“Vulnerable youth and the workers that look after them should be better protected and a ruling in our client’s favour will help make sure the government and group home operators pay better attention to safety.”
An Oakville man accused of trafficking drugs has been charged with manslaughter in the death of a 35-year-old man who died of a fentanyl overdose late last year, police said.
York Regional Police said in a news release on Monday that the charge was laid as a result of a lengthy investigation into the man’s death.
READ MORE: Drug dealer charged with manslaughter in connection with fentanyl overdose: Edmonton police


Police found the man’s body on Christmas Eve after they were called to a home in East Gwillimbury, northeast of Toronto. Investigators said they determined the death was the result of the man’s use of the powerful opioid fentanyl, which he had purchased the day before.
Police said Michael Hilder, 37, was arrested on Thursday and charged with manslaughter, along with trafficking a Schedule 1 substance. He is scheduled to appear in court on July 6.
READ MORE: Nearly 4,000 Canadians died of opioid overdoses in 2017, a new record
As Canada grapples with a crisis in opioid use, several police forces have laid similar charges against alleged drug dealers in recent years, though it is rare.
Last fall, police in Brantford, Ont., laid a manslaughter charge following a fatal overdose on cocaine and fentanyl.
READ MORE: Man charged with manslaughter after opioid overdose death: Brantford police
Police are asking anyone who may have purchased drugs from the accused or have information in the case to contact investigators or Crime Stoppers.
The mother of a young Indigenous woman whose fatal beating was filmed and shared online told a sentencing hearing her life since has been a nightmare.
Serena McKay’s body was found on Manitoba’s Sagkeeng First Nation in April 2017 and two teenage girls, who were 16 and 17, were arrested.
The younger girl, who has since turned 17, pleaded guilty to manslaughter in January.
READ MORE: Crown wants maximum sentence for teen accused in Manitoba beating death
The Crown is seeking an adult sentence of seven years in jail while the defence wants her to be sentenced as a youth and receive three years.
McKay’s mother Delores Daniels told the teen’s sentencing hearing that her body and mind cannot rest and she cries all the time.
She says McKay was not just her only daughter, she was her best friend.
READ MORE: Teen convicted in Serena McKay beating death sentenced to 3 years
The older girl, who has since turned 18 but can’t be named because she was underage when the beating occurred, pleaded guilty to second-degree murder in December and was sentenced to just over three years in jail.
The jury started deliberations Monday in the Jillian Across The Mountain manslaughter trial.
She is charged with the stabbing death of Frances ‘Candy’ Little Light in 2016.
READ MORE: Medical examiner testifies ‘multiple stab wounds’ caused Candy Little Light’s death
After three weeks of testimony, the jury of 11 will now determine the accused’s fate.
READ MORE: Lethbridge woman charged with murder in stabbing death of partner
Before they began deliberations, Justice Rodney A. Jerke laid out his instruction to the jurors, explaining how they should come to their decision, how the process would work and what evidence should be considered.
READ MORE: Closing arguments made in Jillian Across The Mountain manslaughter trial
Across The Mountain took the stand in her own defence, testifying the struggle she had with Little Light was self defence.
— More to come…
A car careened onto a Maine field during a boys’ baseball game Friday night, striking and killing a man and sending screaming ballplayers and bystanders fleeing, police said.
Sanford police said the car drove through an open gate at Goodall Park onto a ballfield, hitting Douglas Parkhurst, 68, of West Newfield, before attempting to speed away. Parkhurst died on the way to the hospital.
None of the players were injured.
Police arrested Carol Sharrow, 51, of Sanford, and charged her with manslaughter. She was taken to York County Jail in Alfred, where she remained on Saturday. Efforts to contact an attorney for Sharrow were unsuccessful.
READ MORE: ‘Affluenza teen’ who killed 4 in drunk driving incident released from jail after 2 years
Sanford police Detective Sgt. Matthew Jones said Sharrow has a drunken driving conviction in Maine and an aggravated drunk driving conviction in New Hampshire, the Portland Press Herald reported . Authorities declined to say whether alcohol was involved on Friday.
Witnesses said that before Sharrow entered the park she tried to drive onto the basketball court across the street but couldn’t get past big boulders lining the court. They said Parkhurst was trying to close a gate when he was hit.
“We want to share our heartfelt gratitude that physically all of our players from Babe Ruth and Little League are safe,” the Sanford Maine Little League said in a Facebook post.
The league’s leaders called for the community to support the young players and on Saturday about 100 people turned out for a morning game, where the Salvation Army distributed free water and coffee.
Two men have pleaded guilty to manslaughter in connection with a robbery gone awry two years ago in northwestern New Brunswick that left one man dead and his home and truck destroyed by fire.
Kurt Andrew Hudnut-Pelletier and James Andrew Melanson, both of Moncton, were originally charged with first-degree murder but changed their pleas Friday in the Court of Queens Bench in Woodstock.
Wayne Rattray, 59, was reported missing on March 2, 2016 after his home was destroyed by fire.
His pickup truck was found burning on March 7, about 25 kilometres away.
Rattray’s body was discovered about two months later more than 150 kilometres away on an island in the Renous River.
READ MORE: 2 more men charged with first-degree murder in Wayne Rattray death
In court Friday, Judge Fred Ferguson read from an agreed statement of facts that said the two accused were doing drugs with a friend on March 1, 2016 and discussed places they could rob to get money and drugs, including the home of Rattray.
The next night the two men broke into a hunting camp but found little to steal, so they went to Rattray’s home and confronted him.
The statement said the two men beat Rattray in an effort to get him to provide the location of a possible stash of money and cocaine.
He was then taken to a gravel pit in his truck where he was beaten so badly that he died from his injuries.
The body was left there for a time, but they returned, and with the help of Luke Frank Ellick of Three Brooks they pushed the body off a bridge, into the Renous River.
Ellick earlier pleaded guilty to break and enter and accessory after the fact to murder, and was sentenced to seven years in prison.
Hudnut-Pelletier and Melanson were to have stood trial on first-degree murder last year, but efforts to get a bilingual jury fell short of getting enough people.
A third attempt would have begun in May.
On what was supposed to be his sentencing Thursday, Baldev Singh Kalsi announced that he had fired his lawyer, and wanted two weeks to talk to his new counsel.
The judge adjourned proceedings to March 12 .
Kalsi pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the violent 2014 death of his wife Narinder Kalsi late last November, with Crown and defence agreeing to an 11-year sentence in February — but they couldn’t agree on credit for time served.
The Crown wants 16 months while defence is asking for 21 months, saying Kalsi was beaten in pretrial custody and suffered internal brain bleeding.
READ MORE: Former Surrey Sikh temple president pleads guilty to manslaughter in wife’s death
Court previously heard that Baldev struck his wife with his fists, stomped on her, and bashed her with an iron in their family home.
He didn’t call paramedics, but instead went to a friend’s house with police not being notified until their son made the call.
Narinder died a week after she was taken off life support.
Kalsi was the president of the Brookside Sikh Temple.
Four men charged with second-degree murder in the beating of a 17-year-old northern Saskatchewan boy have pleaded guilty to manslaughter.
A total of seven people, including two youths, were initially charged with murder in the May 2015 death of Hilliard Sewap Jr. in Pelican Narrows.
Robbie Lambert Cree Custer, Cody Drake Custer, Trevor John Charles and Brandon Lee Matt McCallum, all in their 20s, entered the plea Monday prior to what was to have been a scheduled two-week trial in Prince Albert.
Charles was sentenced to five and a half years, both Custers got two and a half years and McCallum was given two years, but all sentences were reduced based on time already spent in custody.
A fifth man, Marcus Sewap, previously pleaded guilty to manslaughter and will be sentenced in Pelican Narrows on Feb. 6.
A trial for the two youths is scheduled for April.
Crown prosecutor Fran Atkinson told court that Sewap’s death arose from an ongoing dispute between two groups known in Pelican Narrows as the Wong-Streeters and Bronxers.
Atkinson said the Wong-Streeters were chasing members of the Bronxers around the community with pieces of lumber and other weapons when they isolated Sewap and inflicted the beating, which resulted in his death at the scene.
“Hilliard either was knocked down or tripped. He was surrounded,” said Atkinson as part of a sentencing agreement with the defence.
She said although the exact nature of each man’s involvement was difficult to determine, Charles was seen striking the teen with a collapsible police-style baton and bystanders were prevented from coming to his aid.
READ MORE: Four wanted in northern Saskatchewan homicide arrested
Atkinson noted the assault happened the day after government cheques arrived in the community, which she said regularly leads to a spike in alcohol consumption and subsequent violence.
The prosecutor said Sewap’s death has also led to an increase in hostilities between the two factions and she described the current situation as a “gang war.”
“This was a very tragic incident. It has weighed heavily on the community of Pelican Narrows.”
Several members of Sewap’s family were on hand for Monday’s hearing, which prompted officials to move the proceedings to a larger courtroom.
A boy has been charged with manslaughter in the shooting death of a teen in Meadow Lake, Sask.
Kegan McCallum, 17, died in hospital after being found with a gunshot wound at a home in Meadow Lake on Monday.
READ MORE: Family says nobody notified them about teen’s shooting death in Meadow Lake
McCallum’s family described him as a boisterous boy who didn’t have a problem with anyone.
A 15-year-old Meadow Lake boy was arrested Thursday morning by RCMP at a home in North Battleford, Sask., following a three-day manhunt.
He is also charged with possessing a loaded firearm and mischief.
The boy cannot be named under provisions of the Youth Criminal Justice Act.
READ MORE: Teen dead in Meadow Lake, Sask. shooting
He is scheduled to appear Monday morning in Meadow Lake provincial court.
An Alberta youth has been charged with manslaughter in connection to the shooting death of an 18-year-old man.
On Oct. 14, Coronation RCMP responded to a shooting. At the scene, a man was found with gunshot wound to his head.
Jeffrey Smith was taken to an Edmonton hospital by STARS Air Ambulance where he died of his injuries on Oct. 18.
An investigation by the Coronation RCMP and the RCMP Major Crimes Unit has resulted in a 17-year-old youth being charged with manslaughter.
The teenager’s name can’t be released in accordance with the Youth Criminal Justice Act.
RCMP said he was released from custody and is scheduled to appear in court on Dec. 8.
Joshua Petrin, who is currently appealing his Saskatoon first-degree murder conviction, was sentenced on Oct. 30 in a 2012 Alberta killing.
Petrin, 34, was sentenced to a total of 20 years in prison for the 2008 shooting death of Mitchell Chambers and the 2012 death of Bryan Gower, who were both from Alberta.
READ MORE: Josh Petrin guilty in shooting death of Saskatoon mother Lorry Santos
Chambers, 23, was shot in the head while sitting in his truck.
Petrin pleaded guilty to manslaughter on March 10, 2017 in Chambers’ death and was sentenced to 10 years in prison, concurrent to all other sentences he was serving at the time.
At the time of his sentencing in Chambers’ death, Petrin was awaiting sentencing in Gower’s death.
READ MORE: Alleged leader of White Boy Posse gang found guilty of manslaughter
Petrin had been found guilty in November 2016 of manslaughter in Gower’s death after initially being charged with first-degree murder.
Gower was found dead on a rural road near Kitscoty, Alta., on Sept. 25, 2012.
A joint submission was made to the judge in the Gower killing, suggesting Petrin serve 10 years concurrently with his sentencing in the Chambers’ manslaughter conviction.
Judge M. David Gates rejected the submission and instead sentenced Petrin to 10 years in prison consecutive to manslaughter conviction in Chambers’ death, and consecutive to his Saskatchewan convictions.
“I am satisfied that the imposition of a concurrent sentence of 10 years relative to the death of Bryan Gower would bring the administration of justice into disrepute,” Gates wrote in his Oct. 30 judgment.
“I am not persuaded that consecutive sentences of 10 years for two separate manslaughter conviction is unduly long or harsh given the circumstances of the offences and the circumstances of this offender.”
Petrin was found guilty in November 2016 of first-degree murder of Saskatoon mother Lorry Santos and sentenced to life in prison with no chance of parole until 2037.
Santos, a mother of four, was shot dead in her home on the morning of Sept. 12, 2012.
Petrin was also convicted of conspiracy to commit murder and sentenced to 12 years concurrent to his life sentence.
He also pleaded guilty this past January to escaping from Saskatoon Correctional Centre while awaiting his first-degree murder trial in the Santos killing and was sentenced to 23 months concurrent to his previous sentences.
Petrin is appealing his first-degree murder sentence on the grounds the verdict was unreasonable based on the evidence and suggested the judge failed to permit detailed questioning on the financial benefits some Crown witnesses received.
The appeal was filed two months after his conviction.
Legal analysts said even if Petrin is successful with his appeal, he will still spend over 22 years at an institution in Edmonton.
A date for Petrin’s appeal to be heard has not been set.
She died in 2015, nearly two years later her common-law partner was charged with manslaughter and now nine months later he has pleaded guilty to a lesser charge in the death of Sara-Jean Big Sorrel Horse.
Defence lawyer Mansoor Khan and Crown prosecutor Michael Fox came to a resolution in the case as day one of a preliminary hearing was set to begin in Lethbridge court.
In February of this year, 43-year-old Jimmy Bad Man was charged with manslaughter. On Monday, he pleaded guilty to criminal negligence causing death.
The court heard from the Crown the events leading up to Big Sorrel Horse’s death. It began on June 26, 2015, when Bad Man, Big Sorrel Horse and two other Blood Tribe residents were drinking in an area known as “tent city” in Moses Lake, a community located on the south boundary of the Blood Reserve.
At the time, there were two tents in the area, one of which the common-law couple lived in.
Bad Man got money that day from his Assured Income for the Severely Handicapped cheque and purchased alcohol for Big Sorrel Horse, himself and two other tent city residents.
Big Sorrel Horse became extremely intoxicated, as did the other people partaking in the drinking. She passed out near the tent. Bad Man tried to wake her up by nudging her at first, then hitting her. He then began dropping his body on top of her repeatedly, she still did not wake up.
The next morning, June 27, the couple got up and went into town. On their way back to tent city, Big Sorrel Horse collapsed on the path. Bad Man tried to wake her for about 20 minutes. When she wouldn’t wake up he went to a nearby friend’s house. The friend called 911 and followed Bad Man back to where Big Sorrel Horse was, the friend began CPR.
Paramedics arrived and took her to the Cardston Hospital where she was pronounced dead.
The Crown told the court it was determined her death was a homicide. She suffered 47 injuries including displaced and fractured ribs, a lacerated lung, liver, pancreas and bowel. Her cause of death was internal bleeding caused by blunt force trauma.
In a joint submission, the Crown and the defence asked the judge to give a sentence of two years in jail with credit for time served.
READ MORE: Blood Tribe Police wear high heels to bring awareness to domestic violence against women
Justice Eric Peterson was asked to take into consideration Bad Man’s past and upbringing. He and his family have a history of alcohol addiction, he receives financial assistance due to fetal alcohol spectrum disorder and he’s consumed hairspray and Listerine when he couldn’t afford alcohol.
His lengthy criminal record was also presented in court. It dates back to 1986 and includes a number of violent convictions including assault causing bodily harm.
Bad Man told the court: “I never meant for this to happen.” He added he loved her and he was sorry.
Justice Peterson sentenced Bad Man to two years in jail with credit for time served. He has been in custody since his arrest and has 325 days left to serve on his sentence.
A federal grand jury on Thursday handed down hate crime charges against a white man who the authorities say shot and killed two black grandparents at a Kroger supermarket in Kentucky last month.
“There is no place, no place, for hate-fueled violence in this community and no place in this commonwealth,” Russell M. Coleman, the United States attorney for the Western District of Kentucky, said at a Thursday afternoon news conference.
The six-count indictment against the suspect, Gregory Bush, 51, of Louisville, Ky., included two counts of shooting or killing a victim based on race or color and one count of attempting to shoot or kill a victim based on race or color. The remaining charges were for firearm-related offenses. The grand jury in Louisville returned the indictment midafternoon.
“Cutting through the legal jargon, we have three federal hate crimes, three what you would refer to as federal firearms offenses or ‘gun crimes,’” Mr. Coleman said.
If convicted, Mr. Bush faces life in prison without parole. The authorities have not decided whether to pursue the death penalty.
Mr. Bush had already been charged by a state prosecutor with two counts of murder and 10 counts of wanton endangerment and could face the death penalty over those murder charges.
You have 4 free articles remaining.
Subscribe to The Times
The shooting occurred on Oct. 24 in Jeffersontown, a suburb of Louisville, where Mr. Bush initially tried to enter a predominantly black church, according to the police.
Failing that, he proceeded to the Kroger, where witnesses said he fatally shot Maurice E. Stallard, 69. Mr. Bush then went outside to the parking lot, where he shot and killed Vickie Lee Jones, 67. A bystander told the police that during the attack, Mr. Bush had said, “Whites don’t kill whites.”
Mr. Stallard was at the Kroger with his 12-year-old grandson to buy materials for a school project, according to the police. He served in the Air Force and had married his high school sweetheart, Charlotte, a longtime friend, Jesse Kinzer, told The New York Times last month.
Ms. Jones had retired from a Veterans Administration hospital and was caring for her ailing mother, according to her nephew Kevin Gunn.
Last month, the state prosecutor in the case, Thomas B. Wine, told The Times that a hate crime is not a separate offense under Kentucky law, but that a judge could apply the label during the sentencing process.
As a result, many had called for Mr. Bush to face federal hate crime charges, including Greg Fischer, the mayor of Louisville.
Hate crime reports increased 17 percent last year from 2016, the F.B.I. said on Tuesday, rising for the third consecutive year as heated racial rhetoric and actions have come to dominate the news.
Of the more than 7,100 hate crimes reported last year, nearly three out of five were motivated by race and ethnicity, according to the annual report. Religion and sexual orientation were the other two primary motivators.
In addition to the tense political climate, the increase also points to a growing awareness among various law enforcement agencies of the importance of identifying and reporting hate crimes to the F.B.I.
Reporting hate crimes to the F.B.I. is currently voluntary. Last year, roughly a thousand more agencies submitted data than those that did the previous year.
But hate crimes remain vastly underreported. Only 12.6 percent of the agencies in the F.B.I. report indicated that hate crimes had occurred in their jurisdictions in 2017. Agencies as large as the Miami and Las Vegas Metropolitan Police Departments reported zero. (A spokeswoman for the Las Vegas police later said that the report was made in error and that there were actually 61 in the jurisdiction last year.)
“I wouldn’t feel too confident in those numbers,” said Sim J. Singh, the senior advocacy manager for the Sikh Coalition, a civil rights organization. Data shows that hate crime victims often do not trust that reporting will help them.
There are agencies taking steps to enhance law enforcement reporting. Will Johnson, the chief of police in Arlington, Tex., and a vice president of the International Association of Chiefs of Police, said that some departments lack the proper training for identifying and reporting hate crimes. Last year, the chiefs’ association passed a resolution encouraging law enforcement agencies to collect, analyze and report on hate crimes.
“More importantly than anything else is the effective conversation and heightened awareness in communities that this is important and that government institutions are prepared to respond effectively to crimes that victimize broadly across our communities,” Chief Johnson said.
The F.B.I. said it planned to train law enforcement officers next year on how to do a better job of identifying and reporting bias-motivated incidents. The Justice Department has also launched a new website on hate crimes.


This Town Once Feared the 10-Story Waves. Then the Extreme Surfers Showed Up.
This report is a call to action — and we will heed that call,” Matthew Whitaker, the acting attorney general, said in a statement. “The Department of Justice’s top priority is to reduce violent crime in America, and hate crimes are violent crimes. They are also despicable violations of our core values as Americans.”
Much of the country’s political discourse in recent years has been fueled by deep racial divisions. Controversies have ignited this week over a photo of high school students flashing what appears to be a Nazi salute, and a joke by Cindy Hyde-Smith, a white United States senator from Mississippi who ran against Mike Espy, who is black. Ms. Hyde-Smith said that she would attend a public hanging if a supporter asked her to.
The offenses in hate crimes vary in severity from murder to vandalism. A spate of seemingly racially motivated incidents grabbed headlines last year, including a white man’s fatal stabbing of two men who were protecting a woman wearing a hijab in Portland, Ore., and the killing of a white anti-racism protester in Charlottesville, Va., by a white supremacist who plowed into a crowd with a car.
Black people accounted for nearly half of hate crime victims last year, according to the F.B.I. report. Of those targeted based on religion, 58 percent were Jewish.
Last month in Kentucky, a white man accused of fatally shooting two black people at a supermarket had tried to enter a predominantly black church before the killing; in Pittsburgh, a white man charged with killing 11 worshipers at a synagogue had taken to social media to accuse a Jewish organization that helps to resettle migrants of bringing “invaders” to “kill our people.”
“For the N.A.A.C.P., we began to see this during the presidential election in 2015,” said Derrick Johnson, the president of the organization. “The level of tribalism that was being fueled by presidential candidates, the acceptance of intolerance that has been condoned by President Trump and many others across the country has simply emboldened individuals to be more open and notorious with their racial hatred.”






How a Common Interview Question Hurts Women
Dr. Richard A. Friedman rightly points to “the power of political speech to foment physical violence.” To make matters worse, there is evidence that our brains are hard-wired to react aggressively to visual images of those who don’t resemble us — the feared “other” so often targeted by unscrupulous politicians.
The work of Robert Sapolsky, a Stanford University biologist, has shown that when subjects are shown the face of someone of a different race (compared with a same-race face), the brain region associated with fear, anxiety and aggression is activated. Let’s call this the “us” versus “them” response.
But Professor Sapolsky gives us a “powerful cognitive tool” for counteracting this automatic response: “Pretend you’re a ‘them’ and explain your grievances. How would you feel? Would your feet hurt after walking a mile in their shoes?”
This empathic metaphor seems particularly apt as we view images of the much-reviled migrant caravan making its way to the United States.
A Sikh man who was recently ambushed, beaten up and told to return to his country said he believed that the very thing that may have prompted the assault also protected him from further harm.
“My turban really saved me,” Surjit Malhi of Turlock, Calif., said in an interview on Monday.
Mr. Malhi, 50, was putting up political campaign signs near his home, about 60 miles east of San Jose, on July 31 when, he said, two men came up behind him and accosted him. They threw sand in his eyes so he couldn’t see, he said, and struck his head and back with what appeared to be a stick and a belt.
“You don’t belong here,” he said they told him.
His truck was also vandalized. A photo posted on Facebook shows the white pickup defaced with a similar message: “Go back to your country.”
Sheriff Adam Christianson of Stanislaus County said his office was aggressively investigating the case and looking for suspects.



“It’s a despicable hate crime,” the sheriff said. “There is no room for this in Stanislaus County or anywhere else in the United States of America.”
Representative Jeff Denham, Republican of California, released a statement on Monday condemning the attack, which occurred in his district. Central California is home to a large Sikh community, and Mr. Malhi leads a group of Sikh volunteers for the congressman’s campaign.
Inciting violence because of race, religion or political beliefs should never be tolerated,” Mr. Denham said. “This is the third incident in less than two weeks where a member of my team has been a target and it must come to an end.”
Mr. Malhi came to the United States from India in 1992 and is now a permanent resident, he said. He is married with four teenage children, owns a small trucking business and is known locally as a community and political advocate.
He said he got involved in politics after witnessing corruption in his home country.
“We enjoy the freedom we never had in our own country,” said Mr. Malhi, who said he supports Republicans. “So this is why I’m running around, so I can feel I’ve done something for the country too, for America. I’m not living free here.”
He said he was placing campaign signs for Mr. Denham and the local district attorney when he was assaulted. While he still feels sore from the attack, he said a CT scan showed that his brain was not seriously injured. He said his turban acted “like a helmet, but stronger.”
Turbans represent a commitment to gender and racial equality, as well as religious tolerance, said Gurwin Singh Ahuja, co-founder of the National Sikh Campaign.
“Sikhs wear their turbans to signal their readiness to protect people from injustice,” he said. “It’s very ironic that these people chose to attack him for how he looks, when in fact, how he looks represents the highest ideals of our country.”
Mr. Malhi said the attack had not lessened his patriotism. “Whoever did this, they are not truly American,” he said.
Over the weekend, he said, a group of people from his CrossFit gym visited him. They put flowers in his yard. They tidied up his American flag, which hangs outside his house. Afterward, they all had pizza for dinner.
That, he said, is what it means to be an American.



Justin Trudeau’s Official Home: Unfit for a Leader or Anyone Else
. Steve Frank Navaez-Jara, 20, was stabbed on New Year's Day in Islington. His family said they "pray to God that Steve's death brings knife crime to an end".
2. Elizabeta Lacatusu, 44, was stabbed in Redbridge, east London, on 3 January. In June, Geanu Armeanu, her former partner, was jailed for 28 years for murder.
3. Vijaykumar Patel, 49, died on 6 January after being attacked outside a shop in Mill Hill, north London.
A 16-year-old boy was convicted of his manslaughter in July.
4. Daniel Frederick, 34, died after being stabbed in Hackney on 8 January in an unprovoked attack.
Five teenagers were convicted and jailed over his death in October.
5. Leslie Hebblewhite, 63, was stabbed by Eugeniusz Ciwinski, 32, at his Tottenham home on 9 January and died in hospital. Ciwinski stole Mr Hebblewhite's bank card and went on to plunder his savings account, a court heard.
He was convicted of manslaughter and sentenced to 14 years in prison in July.
6. Harry Uzoka, 25. Model killed after being stabbed in the heart in Shepherd's Bush on 11 January.
Two men were convicted of his murder, and a third of manslaughter, in August.
7. Yaya Mbye, 26, died in hospital after being stabbed in Stoke Newington on 28 January.
8. Lily-Mai Saint George, 11 weeks, was found dead in Haringey on 31 January. Police investigated her death as murder and arrested two people in April.
9. Khader Saleh, 25, was stabbed at Wormwood Scrubs prison on 31 January. The 25-year-old's brother described him as "a young man trying to move on in his life".
10. Sayed Azim Khan, 49, was found dead in Ilford Cemetery on 2 February having suffered extensive head injuries. He had last been seen at his home address on 24 January in Thamesmead.
11. Hassan Ozcan, 19, died from multiple stab wounds in Barking, east London, on 3 February.
Boy, 15, charged with man's murder
12. Kwabena Nelson, 23, a youth worker from Tottenham, died after being stabbed on 3 February.
In August, 21-year-old Neron Quartey was found guilty of murder and sentenced to a minimum of 26 years in prison.
13. Juan Olmos Saca, 39, died on 4 February after being stabbed in the chest in Peckham on 29 January. He spent a week in hospital, but never recovered from his injuries.
14. Alfie Lamb, 3, was found unresponsive at his home in Croydon on 1 February and died three days later in hospital. In May, police charged three people in connection with his death.
15. Hannah Leonard, 55, was stabbed in a flat in Camden on 5 February and was found dead several days later.
In November, Lucy Casey, 44, was sentenced to 22 years in prison for her murder.
16. Sabri Chibani, 19, was stabbed in the chest in Streatham, south London, on 11 February.
17. Bulent Kabala, 41, was London's first shooting victim of 2018. He was shot in Barnet on 12 February and died at the scene.
18. Saeeda Hussain, 54, was stabbed at an address in Ilford on 13 February, and died from her injuries.
19. Lord Promise Nkenda, 17, was stabbed in Canning Town, east London, on Valentine's Day.
Five teenagers are currently on trial in connection with his death.
20. Mark Smith, 48, was found unconscious at an address in Waltham Forest, east London, on 15 February and pronounced dead a short time later.
A 38-year old woman has been charged with murder.
21. Lewis Blackman, 19, from Camden, was stabbed in the early hours of 18 February after attending a party in Kensington.
22. Rotimi Oshibanjo, 26, was stabbed in Southall, west London, on 19 February and died from his injuries.
23. Sadiq Mohammed, 20, died after being stabbed in Camden on 20 February. His mother begged those with knives to stop using them, and called for action from police.
24. Abdikarim Hassan, 17, died in Camden after being stabbed on 20 February, hours after Sadiq Mohammed.
The pair were among five victims attacked by a group of men between 20:15 and 22:15 GMT.
25. Richard Staley a Paddington hotel maintenance manager, died in hospital on 24 February. He had suffered a heart attack after tackling a fire in a hotel room on 30 January.
The fire was later found to have been started deliberately by Nora Es-Sadki Boughima, 19. She was charged with manslaughter, and in November sentenced to six years in prison.
26. Jozef Boci, 30, suffered serious head injuries after being attacked on the street in Greenwich. Mr Boci, who was from Albania but living in Catford, was taken to hospital after the attack on 17 February, but died on 24 February.
Two men were convicted of his manslaughter in September.
27. Amir Ellouzi, 24, from Victoria, was shot in Westminster on 20 February and died one week later.
28. Christopher Beaumont, 42, was stabbed to death by his brother at his mother's house in Hammersmith on 1 March.
Stephen Blake, 32, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was later sentenced to indefinite detention under the Mental Health Act.
29. Laura Figueira, 47, was found dead at her home in Twickenham on 5 March with stab wounds.
Later the same day, her husband and two young sons were discovered at the foot of cliffs in East Sussex, all three having died from multiple injuries consistent with falling from a height.
Stabbed mum and cliff death family named
30. Kelva Smith, 20, died after being stabbed in the abdomen in Croydon. His aunt said London's issue with knife crime was "out of control".
Tyrone Farquharson, 20, was convicted of his murder in October.
31. Kelvin Odunuyi, 19, was shot outside a cinema in Wood Green on 8 March.
32. Michael Boyle, 44, died from a single stab wound to the chest. He was attacked on 25 February and died in hospital on 10 March.
33. Julian Joseph, 36, died in hospital after being attacked on a bus in New Cross on 12 March and suffering a serious head injury.
34. Nikolai Glushkov, 68, a Russian businessman, was found dead at his home in south-west London having been strangled. His death came a week after the poisonings of former Russian spy Sergei Skripal and his daughter in Salisbury.
Police later disclosed that Mr Glushkov had survived a suspected poisoning himself in 2013.
35. Joseph William-Torres, 20, was shot dead in a car in Walthamstow on 14 March. A 15-year-old boy was later charged with his murder.
36. Lyndon Davis, 18, was stabbed to death in Chadwell Heath on 14 March.
37. Naomi Hersi, 36, was found with stab wounds at a hotel near Heathrow Airport on 16 March. She was pronounced dead 30 minutes later.
In November, Jesse McDonald, 25, was jailed for 20 years for her murder.
38. Russell Jones, 23, died after suffering from stab injuries and a gunshot wound in Enfield on 17 March.
39. Tyrone Silcott, 41, died after being stabbed in Hackney on 18 March.
40. Balbir Johal, 48, was admitted to hospital with stab wounds after being attacked in Southall on 19 March. He died shortly afterwards.
One man was later convicted of his murder, another of manslaughter.
41. Jermaine Kevin Johnson, 41, was stabbed in Waltham Forest, east London, on 19 March.
42. Beniamin Pieknyi, 21, was found with stab wounds at Stratford shopping centre on 20 March. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
Murder victim's family flee London 'danger'
43. Abraham Badru, 26, was shot dead in Dalston, north-east London, on 25 March. His family described him as a "beautiful soul" who "hated confrontation".
Son's killing 'revenge' for halting rape
44. David Potter, 50, was found dead inside a house in Tooting High Street on 26 March. He had suffered stab injuries.
45. Wieskaw Kopcynski, 59, died in hospital on 27 March, two days after being assaulted at his home in Barking, east London.
46. Malachi Brooks, 21, was found stabbed in Surrey Lane, Battersea, on 28 March. He was pronounced dead at the scene.
Three men were later convicted of arson after a car used by his attackers was set alight. No-one has been charged over his death.
47. Reece Tshoma, 23, was stabbed in Plumstead, south-east London, on 29 March.
48. Leyla Mtumwa, 36, was found with stab wounds in Haringey on 30 March and died from her injuries. In October Kema Salum, 39, was sentenced to 23 years in prison for her murder.
49. Ourania Lambrou, 80, died in hospital after being assaulted on the street by Harry Goodwin-Sims, 29. He was jailed for six years for her manslaughter in September.
50. Devoy Stapleton, 20, was stabbed in Wandsworth, south London on 1 April.
51. Tanesha Melbourne-Blake, 17, died in a drive-by shooting in Tottenham on 2 April. Friends described her as a "very loveable little girl in the community".
Man arrested over teen's fatal shooting
52. Amaan Shakoor, 16, was shot in Walthamstow on 2 April and died a day later in hospital.
53. Henry Vincent, 38, was stabbed at a house in Lewisham on 4 April, reportedly while burgling the property. The 38-year-old was found collapsed in the street and died from his injuries a few hours later in hospital.
Richard Osborn-Brooks, 78, was arrested on suspicion of murder, but later released without charge and told he would face no further action.
54. Babatunde Akintayo Awofeso, 53, was pronounced dead at a bookmakers in Upper Clapton, north London, on 4 April following reports of an altercation with another man.
55. Israel Ogunsola, 18, was stabbed to death in Hackney on 4 April. Police were alerted by a motorist and performed first aid, but the teenager died at the scene. In November, Jonathan Abora, 18, was jailed for 18 years for his murder.
56. John Maclean, 35, was stabbed at a property in the Isle of Dogs area. Paramedics were called, but he died at the scene.
57. Natasha Hill, 18, was found with multiple head injuries in the early hours of 15 April. She was pronounced dead at the scene in Abbey Wood.
58. Raul Chiriac, 26, was stabbed to death by his girlfriend Simone Fergus, 34, on 15 April at their home in Colindale, north London. She was later convicted of his manslaughter.
59. Samantha Clarke, 38, was stabbed to death in Brixton on 15 April.
60. Sami Sihom, 18, was stabbed in Forest Gate, east London at about 22:50 BST on 16 April and died about 30 minutes later. He was reportedly on his way home from watching a West Ham game.
61. John Woodward, 47, a builder, was found dead in Hatton Garden with serious head injuries. It was initially thought that he had suffered an accident, but police later opened a murder inquiry.
62. Aaron Springett, 32, was found collapsed after a street fight in Morden, south London, on 19 April. He was taken to hospital but died a day later. In November, Joseph Ankrah, 31, was sentenced to seven years in prison for his manslaughter.
63. Kwasi Anim-Boadu, 20, was found dead with stab wounds in Roth Walk, Finsbury Park, on 21 April.
64. Leon Maxwell, 38, was shot on 1 May near to Queensbury underground station in north-west London. He died from his injuries at the scene.
65. Rhyhiem Ainsworth-Barton, 18, was killed in a fatal shooting in Kennington on 5 May. He died from his injuries at the scene.
66. Onees Khatoon, 71, was killed by her 51-year-old son on 13 May in the home they shared in Hayes, south London.
Man admits murdering 71-year-old mother
67. Gerry Gaffney, 46, a lighting technician, was stabbed in Vassall Road, Camberwell, on 14 May.
68. Osman Shidane, 20, was stabbed on 15 May in Ruislip. He died in hospital from his injuries three days later.
69. Rosina Coleman, 85, was found dead at her home in Ashmour Gardens, Romford, on 15 May. Paul Prause, a 65-year-old handyman, was later charged and convicted of her murder. He will serve 22 years in prison.
Handyman admits bludgeoning pensioner
70. Abdulrahman Nassor Juma, 23, known to his friends as Mani, was killed in Barking on 17 May. Police tried to save him before the paramedics arrived, but he was pronounced dead at the scene due to his stab injuries.
71. Arunesh Thangarajah, 28, was stabbed in Mitcham, south London, and died on 20 May.
72. Sophie Cavanagh, 31, was found dead at an address in Chatterton Road, Bromley, on 20 May. Her estranged husband was later charged with murder.
73. Marcel Campbell, 30, from Haringey was stabbed to death on Upper Street in Islington on 21 May. Reece Williams, 22, was found guilty of his manslaughter in November.
74. Andra Hilitanu, 28, was found stabbed to death at a property in Neasden on 1 June.
75. Mark Fontaine, 41, a delivery driver, was fatally stabbed in Kensington on 5 June. A 14-year-old boy was later charged with his murder.
76. Edmond Jonuzi, 35, was found with serious stab wounds near Turnpike Lane underground station in north London on 9 June. He died at the scene.
77. Gitana Matukeviciene, 50, was found dead at a property in Dagenham on 9 June having suffered from a range of injuries. A man has been charged with her murder.
78. Joshua Boadu, 23, who was known as "SJ", was found with stab wounds at an address in Southwark on 11 June. He died from his injuries. A man has been charged with murder.
79. Mark Tremain, 52, spent several weeks in hospital in a critical condition after police were called to reports of men fighting in Lambeth. He died on 14 June from a head injury.
80. Matthew Thomas, 39, a scaffolder, was found dead with unexplained injuries at a flat in Pimlico, central London. A man and a woman were arrested at the scene.
81. Gita Suri, 56, was found in the rear garden of a house in Tunnel Avenue, Greenwich, on Saturday 23 June. She had suffered stab injuries.
82. Jordan Douherty, 15, was stabbed to death in Romford, east London, on 23 June during a fight involving about 100 youths.
83. Ishak Tacine, 20, was stabbed to death in Edmonton, north London, on 27 June.
84. Shuren Ma, 72, died shortly after police attended reports of a disturbance at an address in Woolwich on 1 July. A man in his 70s was also found at the scene with stab injuries.
85. Janek Brakonecki, 57, was found seriously injured in a car park near Leytonstone High Road in east London on 7 July. He died at the scene.
86. Katrina Makunova, 17, was stabbed on 12 July in Camberwell. The teenager died from a wound to her chest.
87. Latwaan Griffiths, 18, was found by police on Denmark Road in Lambeth having suffered stab injuries on 26 July. He died the following day.
88. Sheila Thomas, 69, was found dead at an address on Casino Avenue in Herne Hill, south London on 31 July.
89. Sidique Kamara, 23, a drill rapper known as Incognito, was found dead by police in Camberwell on 1 August. He had been stabbed.
90. A 50-year-old woman, named locally as Karen Peter, died in a house fire on Valentines Way, Dagenham, on 2 August. A man was later charged with murder and arson with intent to endanger life.
91. Malik Chattun, 22, was stabbed in Kingston upon Thames on 5 August during a brawl reportedly involving 10 people.
92. Joel Urhie, 7, died after an arson attack at his home in Deptford, south-east London, on 7 July. Joel's mother said he was was the "sweetest most caring little boy you could ever meet".
93. Simonne Samantha Kerr, 31, was stabbed to death in Wandsworth on 15 August. A nurse, she had appeared on Britain's Got Talent in an NHS choir.
Desmond Sylva, 40, was later charged with her murder.
94. Joseph Cullimore, 42, was stabbed to death in Chingford, east London, on 17 August.
95. Leroy Junior Edwards, 66, was stabbed to death in Catford, south-east London, on 18 August.
96. Eric Michels, 52, was found dead at his home in Chessington, south west London, on 18 August from an apparent drug overdose. Gerald Matovu, 25, was later charged with murder.
97. Gary Amer, 63, was stabbed to death at a property in Walworth, south-east London, on 19 August.
98. Kaltoun Saleh, 43, died in hospital on 21 August as a result of a fire at a property in Islington on 5 July.
99. Caroline Harrison, 73, died in a house fire in Teddington on 22 August. Police began a murder investigation after tests revealed she had been attacked before her death.
100. Shevaun Sorrell, 22, was found unresponsive in Creek Road, Deptford, at 23:45 BST on 25 August. Ambulance crews found he had suffered stab injuries, but he died in hospital an hour later.
101. Abdi Ali, 18, was found in the loft of an address in Enfield on 27 August, having gone missing in December last year. He had died from a blunt force trauma to the head and stab wounds to the chest.
102. Celia Levitt, 68, was killed at a residential address in Bromley on 31 August. Her death was as a result of compression to the neck, police said.
103. Ismail Tanrikulu, 22, was shot dead in Tottenham Cemetery on 3 September.
104. Memunatu Warne, 46, died after a suspected arson attack at a property on 6 September in Woolwich.
105. Ali Al Har, 25, was stabbed to death in Islington on 18 September.
106. Kanagusabi Ramathan, 76, was found dead at a residential address in Newham on 21 September.
107. Elyon Poku, 20, was stabbed during a party in Stamford Hill. He died in the early hours of 22 September as a result of his injuries.
108. Guled Farah, 19, was shot and killed in Walthamstow on 22 September. His friends drove him to hospital, but he died less than an hour after police were called.
109. Sandra Zmijan, 32, was found dead in a garden in Hayes, west London, on 24 September. Police disclosed that she had died after being hit repeatedly by a heavy blunt object.
110. Hashim Abdalla Ali,22, was found in a car in Hillingdon with a gunshot wound on 11 October and pronounced dead at the scene.
111. Moses Mayele, 23, was stabbed yards away from his home in Hainault on 12 October.
112. Ian Tomlin, 46, was killed in Battersea on 17 October. He died from a blunt force trauma to his head.
113. Nazia Ali, 25, from Bow, was found dead at a residential address in Tower Hamlets on 22 October.
114. Ethan Nedd-Bruce, 18, died on the street in Greenwich on 22 October. He had been stabbed, but a post-mortem found the cause of death to be a gunshot wound.
115. Sheiku Adams, 49, died after falling from a third floor flat in Camden on 25 October. Three people were charged with his manslaughter on 7 November.
116. Martin Welsh, 47, was stabbed at a residential address in Hendon, north London, on 28 October. He was pronounced dead at the scene. A woman has been charged with his murder.
117. Rocky Djelal, 38, was fatally stabbed in Southwark Park on 31 October. His family said he was "a father who was idolised by his daughter, a brother who was loved dearly and an uncle, nephew and friend who was loved and respected".
118. Jay Hughes, 15, from Bellingham, south-east London, died of a single stab wound to the heart after he was attacked in the street on 1 November.
119. Malcolm Mide-Madariola, 17, was stabbed outside Clapham South underground station in the middle of the afternoon on 2 November. The teenager from Peckham, who was a student at a college in Clapham, was taken to hospital, but died from his injuries.
A 17-year-old boy has been charged with murder.
120. Ayodeji Habeeb Azeez, 22, was found on Samos Road in Anerley, south London, at lunchtime on 4 November with stab wounds. He died at the scene 30 minutes later.
121. John Ogunjobi, 16, was found with fatal injuries on Greenleaf Close, Tulse Hill, south London, at 22:53 on 5 November. Police were called to reports of gunshots, but found him collapsed on the street with stab injuries.
122. Devi Unmathallegadoo, 35, known as Sana Muhammad, was reportedly shot with a crossbow at her home in Ilford while eight months pregnant. Her unborn baby was delivered by emergency Caesarian section. A 50-year-old man has been charged with murder.
123. Tanseen Sheikh, 62, was found dead at an address in Balham, south west London, on 12 November. Her husband, Naseer Khan, 66, was charged with murder on 14 November.
124. An 89-year-old woman was found dead at an address in Ealing, west London, on 17 November. Police have charged 37-year-old Busisiwe Msipha with manslaughter.
125. A 75-year-old woman was stabbed to death at her home in Peckham, south London, on 17 November. She was named locally as Maureen Watkins. A 55-year-old man has been charged with murder.
126. Carl Whitehead, 58, was found dead at an address in Teddington, south west London, on 17 November. Police opened a homicide investigation after a post-mortem revealed he had died of injuries consistent with blunt force trauma.
127. Zakaria Bukar Sharif Ali, 26, was found stabbed in Dalston, east London, shortly after 06:30 on Saturday 24 November. He was taken to hospital, but died of his injuries.
Police believe he may have been involved in an earlier altercation outside the Rolling Stock bar in Shoreditch, and have appealed for any witnesses to come forward.
A California woman allegedly caught on surveillance video last month assaulting a McDonald's worker after she didn’t get enough ketchup has been arrested, authorities said Wednesday.
Mayra Bernice Gallo, 24, was taken into police custody at her Santa Ana home on Tuesday. Police received multiple tips from the public, Cpl. Anthony Bertagna told the OC Register. Police had released surveillance video of the incident that they said showed a suspect walking into a McDonald’s on Oct. 27 and becoming enraged.
“She didn’t get her ketchup, or enough,” Bertagna told the paper. “An employee in the back (of the restaurant) had told her she couldn’t go inside, but she did. She was on a mission.”


Gallo had ordered food through the McDonald’s drive-thru before entering a back door to the restaurant used by employees, so she could ask for ketchup, Santa Ana police said. The employee told Gallo they would be “glad” to help if she went to the front of the restaurant, but instead the 24-year-old “became combative,” police told KABC-TV.
She “pushed, punched and choked” the employee, officials said. Surveillance video allegedly shows Gallo slamming the employee’s head into drink machines.
While other employees tried to intervene, it wasn’t until an unidentified man believed to be with the suspect entered the restaurant that the woman left, police said.
Gallo was charged with suspicion of assault at the Santa Ana Police Department Jail, police said.
“There's no reason to physically assault someone because you didn't get enough ketchup,” Bertagna told KTLA-TV.
A teenager repeatedly bludgeoned a 14-year-old girl in the head in a “sustained and ferocious attack” before raping her and dumping her partially-clothed body in a park, a court has heard.
The 16-year-old boy struck Viktorija Sokolova at least 21 times with a blunt weapon “like a hammer” after contacting her over social media, a jury at Wolverhampton Crown Court was told.
The youth, who cannot be named because of his age, used Facebook’s messaging service to arrange to meet Sokolova in the city’s West Park in April.
He is alleged to have killed her in a pavilion known as the “black house” before sexually abusing her dead body, which he dragged 150 metres and “draped” over the arm of a bench.
A dog-walker found Sokolova’s body early on 12 April, the court heard.
Prosecutor Jonathan Rees told the jury: “As he walked into the heart of the park, he saw what he initially thought was a blow-up doll resting on a park bench.
A post-mortem examination concluded Sokolova, who was originally from Lithuania and living in Wolverhampton, died from blunt force trauma to the head.
She “had been subjected to a sustained and ferocious attack to the head, which involved a minimum of 21 blows,” the prosecutor said.
He added: “The force of the attack was such that it caused multiple fractures of the underlying skullcap and her facial skeleton.
“In short, to put it into lay-person’s terms, her head had been smashed in.”
Evidence indicated Sokolova was dead before she was “positioned over the park bench”, Mr Rees said.
He told the jury: “Whatever the nature of the sexual activity, the prosecution say that this is a case of murder, in that the evidence establishes that it was the defendant who carried out the fatal attack, and at the time he did so, he intended either to kill Viktorija or to cause her really serious bodily injury.”
The authorities in Georgia have reopened a cold case and arrested five people — including two law enforcement officials — in connection with what the local sheriff said was a brutal, racially motivated murder of a black man 34 years ago.
The arrests were made on Friday, about seven months after new information emerged, said the sheriff, Darrell Dix of Spalding County, in Griffin, Ga., about 40 miles south of Atlanta.
“If the crime happened today, it would be prosecuted as a hate crime,” he said at a news conference on Friday.
The body of Timothy Coggins, 23, was found abandoned in a grassy roadside area of Sunny Side, Ga., on Oct. 9, 1983, the sheriff said. He said his office conducted an exhaustive investigation at the time but the case had gone cold until March, when new evidence surfaced.
The Georgia Bureau of Investigation and the Sheriff’s Office re-examined the case, the sheriff said, and told the Coggins family about the new leads in July.


He did not provide details about the suspects’ motivation, but called the crime “heinous” and pledged to prosecute those responsible and “those who obstructed or hindered this investigation.” He also did not describe how Mr. Coggins was murdered or the nature of the new evidence. He said more arrests were possible.
Officials said Frankie Gebhardt, 59, and Bill Moore Sr., 58, were each charged with murder, aggravated assault, concealing a death and other crimes. Both men had “extensive criminal records,” the sheriff said.
Georgia public records show that Mr. Gebhardt had been charged in the past with offenses including aggravated assault and simple battery, which landed him in prison. Mr. Moore has been incarcerated for burglary, theft and other offenses, records show.
Sign Up for On Politics With Lisa Lerer
A spotlight on the people reshaping our politics. A conversation with voters across the country. And a guiding hand through the endless news cycle, telling you what you really need to know.
Gregory Huffman, 47, was charged with violation of oath of office and obstruction, officials said. Until Friday morning, Mr. Huffman had been a detention officer with the Spalding County Sheriff’s Office, Sheriff Dix said. Mr. Huffman has since been fired, he said.


Sandra Bunn, 58, and Lamar Bunn, whose age was not immediately known by the authorities, were charged with obstruction. The authorities did not say if the Bunns were related.
Mr. Bunn worked at the Milner Police Department, Sheriff Dix said, adding that he was a police officer and that his fate would be up to the police chief. Department officials could not be immediately reached on Sunday.
All five suspects are white, the sheriff added.
“It has been an emotional roller coaster for everybody that was involved,” he said. “This morning started the lifting of a burden.”
Heather Coggins, the victim’s niece, was one of several family members who attended the news conference. She said that Mr. Coggins’s mother and stepfather — her grandparents — had died in the last two years, but that even on her deathbed, his mother “still said Tim’s name.”
“She knew this day would one day come,” Ms. Coggins said. “The worst is over.”
In a telephone interview late Saturday, Ms. Coggins, 40, said her family was grateful to the authorities for pursuing the case. She said law enforcement officials had been “extremely tight-lipped” about it, even to them.
We’re waiting just like the world is to see what happened and what the details are,” she said.
Ms. Coggins said she was only 6 when her uncle was killed. Still, she said she remembered living with him off and on. He loved to dance, she said, and would play outside with her often.
Soon after the murder, the police canvassed neighborhoods showing a picture of a body, which was eventually identified by a family member, Ms. Coggins said.
For years, she said, her family knew next to nothing.
“We didn’t know if the people that were suspected of killing him were among us,” she said. “We didn’t know if it was the pastor of the church, the mailman, whoever.”
Her family has never been to the site where Mr. Coggins was found and still doesn’t know exactly where he was killed.
She lamented that her grandparents were not “here to see justice.”
“But hopefully,” she said, “we are.”
A Jewish professor and Holocaust scholar at Columbia University in New York on Wednesday said two swastikas and an anti-Semitic slur were spray-painted on the walls outside her office.
Elizabeth Midlarsky said she was heading into her office at Columbia Teacher’s College around 1 p.m. when she found the hate symbols scrawled across the walls in red paint, the Columbia Daily Spectator reported. A derogatory word was also written on the wall.
A Message from www.nissanusa.com
Promoted video
Click to learn more
“I was in shock,” Midlarsky told the paper. “I stopped for a moment, because I couldn’t believe what I was seeing.”
A former Parktown Boys' High School assistant water polo coach has been sentenced to 20 years in prison for sexual assault and an additional 3 years for common assault. 
Collan Rex, 22, initially faced 327 charges. However, he pleaded guilty to 144 counts of sexual assault and 12 counts of common assault. The court acquitted him of some of the charges. 
In handing down sentencing on Thursday, acting Judge Peet Johnson said the discretion to impose sentence was in the hands of the court and not the probation officer who compiled a report stating that Rex had difficulties growing up. 


“When sentencing a person court looks beyond personal circumstances,” he said. 


The judge said he also took into consideration the fact that there were victims who were under suicidal watch. He said Rex’s convictions were serious and were directly linked to his conduct. 


“The offenses that you have been found guilty of are serious,” he said.
 'Serial sexual offender'
"I’ve never come a cross where a person has been found guilty of so many sexual assault counts. From the facts, you cannot be described in any other way but a serial sexual offender and sexual bully," he said. 
Johnson added that the court did not believe that Rex was not aware of the consequences of his acts.
He also added that one had to wonder if Rex would have continued with his acts if the hostel master had not come across the video that was submitted to the court as evidence. 


“The sentence should not be used to destroy you, although you have not shown mercy to your victims,” he said. 
Johnson described Rex as a danger to society and children and ordered that he be added to the sexual offences register.
Sentencing proceedings got underway in the South Gauteng High Court, sitting in the Palm Ridge Magistrate's Court, on Tuesday. 
They were initially scheduled for September 17, but were postponed as a probation officer's pre-sentencing report was outstanding.
'Nothing wrong with his acts' 
Earlier on Thursday defense Advocate William Robertse submitted to the court in his closing arguments that Rex's age should be considered when determining his sentence.
He submitted that because Rex was exposed to a culture of bullying, wrestling and touching of genitals  during his time as a pupil at the school he saw nothing wrong with his acts. 


Robertse added that the psychological effects and the impacts his victims had suffered should not just be blamed on Rex. He said  the other pupils and teachers who had teased the victims should also be held responsible. 


Judge Johnson argued that if Rex didn’t mean any harm to the boys, why had he dry-humped them. 


During the trial, it emerged that Rex would dry hump them in their dorm rooms. 


The state’s advocate Arveena Persard argued that the boys' depression should be taken into consideration. She said it was worrisome that some of the victims were on anti depressants because of Rex's actions. 


“We heard sadly that a matric pupil was writing his exams in a psychiatric institution, “ Persard submitted. 
'Premeditated behaviour'
Persaed added Rex's sentence should reflect that the victims would have to live with the trauma for the rest of their lives. 


“It’s the states submission to this court that the effects of this crime is not limited to 17 victims, ” she said. 


Persard said at minimum, the court should consider that it was also dealing with other siblings who suffered from stress because of the incident. 


She put the minimum of number of people who suffered from this case to 68 people. 


The advocate said it was also the state's submission that the accused's behaviour was ”premeditated, inhumane, shocking, controlling manipulating and merciless”. 
A man killed his ex-partner and injured his four-year-old daughter following a domestic dispute in Reitz, Free State police said on Thursday.
He had recently separated from Nthabiseng Mokoena, 35, and stabbed her multiple times during an argument on Tuesday, said Captain Zweli Mohobeleli.
He also stabbed his daughter in the arm. She received stitches at hospital and was later discharged into the care of her mother's family.
READ: Port Elizabeth mother stabbed to death in front of her infant child
Mohobeleli said the man, 33, was traced to a hill near Petsana where he was arrested.
"He was found in possession of a rope which we suspect he intended to hang himself with."
He was expected to appear in the Reitz Magistrate's Court on Friday, to face charges of murder and attempted murder.
Acting Bethlehem Cluster Commander Brigadier Nkaise Molefe extended his condolences to the Mokoena family.
"I would also like to applaud members of the community for making it their business to call the police when they witnessed the stabbing."
The police have pleaded for people who have protection orders against their abusers to report any contravention immediately.
A survey of 135 health facilities designated to care for survivors of sexual violence in South Africa found that nearly half do not offer counselling services to child survivors of rape, and one in five offer no counselling services at all, Ground reports.
This is according to a new "Untreated Violence" report by Doctors Without Borders (MSF), confirming critical gaps in the provision and availability of mental healthcare for survivors of sexual violence, especially regarding the poor.
The Department of Health has designated 265 public healthcare facilities - mostly hospitals - across all provinces to provide medical and psychological care to survivors of sexual violence. But most forms of mental health treatment are unavailable.
MFS contacted all 265 facilities; 39 could not be reached as their telephones did not work; another 39 did not respond after five calls; and 52 declined to participate. In total, only 135 (51%) participated in the study and of these 45% did not provide counselling for children.
Health24: Know the signs of child abuse
Yolanda Hanning, an MSF psychologist working in the North West, said "76% of facilities do not offer counselling services around the clock; whereas 39% of facilities say they provide no risk assessment for suicide. This reality of erratic and unavailable services turns accessing mental healthcare into a lottery for survivors of sexual violence, which can potentially lead to survivors taking their own lives."
According to the report: "This is an extremely serious limitation of current services, particularly given the relatively high frequency of serious mental health consequences of sexual violence."
No counselling for victims of intimate partner violence
Some of the other concerning statistics are: 20% do not provide trauma counselling for victims of acute violence; 4% provided no mental health services at all; 62% did not have a child-friendly space. Only 13% had social care groups for victims of sexual violence. Only 17% had a healthcare provider on call 24 hours per day, seven days a week, to provide mental health counselling.
More than half indicated that there are no mental health services for victims of intimate partner violence.
The report states that "sexual violence in an intimate partner relationship, especially in transactional ("blesser-blessee") relationships, are missed and patients are not given support and care. In addition, many survivors of sexual violence do not immediately disclose the incident. It is also of concern that someone experiencing intimate partner violence in the absence of sexual violence does not receive counselling."
Only 53% of facilities had access to drugs to treat acute anxiety for victims of sexual violence. This medication assists in stabilising a victim who has experienced trauma.
All the facilities should be able to provide counselling services 24 hours per day, seven days per week. But according to the study the system fails the victims.
"There are considerable gaps in both the availability and nature of services that exist for survivors of sexual and gender-based violence in designated facilities, the very facilities specifically designed to meet their needs. As a consequence, many opportunities to reduce the harm associated with sexual violence are not realised.
"Even survivors who make it to care, in many cases, fail to receive the help they need."
'No political will'
Lisa Vetten, Mellon doctoral fellow at the University of the Witwatersrand, with more than 20 years of experience in the field of gender violence, told GroundUp that the neglect of post-rape care was part of the neglect of both social welfare services and mental health services in South Africa.
"Both are very under-funded and have been so for years. Social welfare services like post-rape care are seen as 'soft' issues, meaning that they're not budget priorities in the way 'hard' issues are (like unemployment).
"There is no political will to do anything about this. Many of the subsidies paid by the Department of Social Development to counsellors and other NGO staff who provide services to women are below the minimum wage. This was raised in Parliament and with the Presidency. Nothing has changed – even though vague promises have been made to the sector about improving their working conditions since 1999.
"Much of the welfare sector is built on the exploitation of women NGO workers. True commitment is measured by the rands and cents spent on addressing women's needs and rights – not the fine words said during the 16 Days [of activism] and its speeches."
This was the third in the "Untreated Violence" series by MSF, called: "Critical gaps in mental healthcare for survivors of sexual violence in South Africa".
The first report established the extent of sexual and direct violence in the platinum mining belt. Thesecond report focused on the general gap in public health services and forensic nursing for survivors of sexual violence across the country.
Comment from the Department of Health will be added when received.
The 14 Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) security guards arrested late October for allegedly tying up fellow security guards and attempting to steal vehicles at the company's head office in Pretoria were released last week on R2 000 bail each, GroundUp reported.
Prosecutors asked for bail to be denied on the grounds that the 14 accused were a flight risk and a threat to witnesses. This was disputed by Magistrate Mali Mokoena who set the bail at R2 000 each.
The accused security guards claimed they were merely involved in a simulated robbery to test security at the Prasa premises after several previous robbery incidents.
Police spokesperson Captain Colette Weilbach said the 14 suspects were found with two firearms, including a toy weapon, after tying up and threatening three fellow guards.
Prasa staff later found knives and a toy gun in nearby shrubs, which may have been tossed away when the police appeared on the scene. The security guards are reported to have said they were carrying out the orders of Wilson Sebiloane, head of Prasa's business intelligence unit.
Sebiloane is a former uMkhonto weSizwe operative who was granted amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission for attempted murder and possession of a firearm. The commission found that these crimes, committed in 1991, were politically motivated.
Internal investigation ongoing
In court, the State prosecutor and police investigators said the "simulated robbery" claim was a convenient cover story. They said it was a carefully planned heist that went wrong when police arrived on the scene to find fellow security guards tied up and the accused attempting to make off with several of the 200 new company vehicles reportedly held at the premises.
Prasa media spokesperson Nana Zenani said the company was conducting an internal investigation into the circumstances surrounding the alleged robbery, but referred questions to the police and the National Prosecuting Authority.
"We would rather not comment on the progress of our internal investigation. I think we need to give the accused an opportunity to present their version of events to the court."
A senior Prasa manager who asked not to be named said: "What doesn't look good for the security guards is an email sent after the fact to corroborate their version of events. Also, that they tied up fellow security guards and threatened them with weapons while insisting they hand over keys to company vehicles."
The state has argued that if this had been a legitimate operation, the police and medical personnel would have been informed.
The defendants' legal counsel countered that the simulated operation was approved and was one of several similar operations that had previously taken place. They also argued that the operation was recorded in the security operations book.
The case has been postponed to January 21, 2019.
he substance found on the 20-year-old accused of raping a 7-year-old girl in the bathroom of a Dros restaurant in Pretoria has been identified as cocaine.
A reliable source told News24 that a forensic analysis of the substance revealed that it tested positive for cocaine and that the charge sheet has been completed to reflect that the accused was in alleged possession of cocaine.
Furthermore, police have also tracked down a man who socialised with the accused at a restaurant on the day of the alleged incident, and a statement was obtained from him.
Police spokesperson Colonel Lungelo Dlamini confirmed to News24 that police had taken all the relevant statements of witnesses present that day.
On Wednesday morning, the accused appeared in the dock of the Pretoria Magistrate's Court where his case was postponed to next year.
News24 reported that the accused, who wore a grey hoodie, could be seen sobbing and wiping tears from his eyes as he stood in the dock. His head was bowed down as he heard that a bed at Weskoppies Psychiatric Hospital was still not available.
Still waiting for a bed
State advocate Sanet Jacobson told the court on Wednesday that the accused was Number 14 on the waiting list for a bed. She asked that the case be postponed to January 15, 2019.
Read: Case against Dros rape accused postponed as bed still not available at Weskoppies.
"As soon as a bed becomes available, we will requisition the accused and he will then be referred," Jacobson added.
The court also heard that the accused would be referred to a district surgeon on Wednesday. 
Magistrate Ignatius du Preez explained that, despite the postponement, if a bed became available before then, he would be referred.
Referred for mental observation
During a previous court appearance on November 1, the court granted an application by the State and defence to have the 20-year-old accused referred for mental observation.
The court also granted an application by the defence to appoint an additional psychiatrist and clinical psychologist, making up a team of four experts who will observe the accused while he is in Weskoppies, which is a state psychiatric institution. 
Defence lawyer Riaan du Plessis told the court that there was a need to explore the mental state the accused had at the time of the incident. 
He added that the accused had been diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2013 and has been using drugs since he was 14 years old. 
It was put on record that the accused previously underwent rehabilitation for substance abuse. 
"He also tried to commit suicide because of the severe depression of having bipolar," said Du Plessis. 
Read: Dros rape accused claims police, public assaulted him
News24 previously reported that the accused was at the restaurant where he allegedly followed the 7-year-old child to a bathroom and raped her.
A video, taken moments after the alleged incident, showed a man covered in blood and angry patrons berating him.
The accused has not yet brought an application for his release on bail, nor has he pleaded to the charges.
*News24 has taken a decision not to identify the accused until he has pleaded in court as stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Act.
According to Section 154(2b) of the Criminal Procedure Act: No person shall at any stage before the appearance of an accused in a court upon any charge referred to in Section 153(3) or at any stage after such appearance but before the accused has pleaded to the charge, publish in any manner whatever any information relating to the charge in question.
Section 153(3) refers to criminal proceedings related to sexual offences charges.
Once the accused has pleaded to the charges, News24 will reveal his identity in accordance with the law.
The ANC ward councillor who was shot dead on Monday was the "first casualty" of the VBS scandal, The Star reported on Wednesday. 
Thabang Maupa of Ward 5 in the Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality, Limpopo, was shot dead in his car on Monday evening.
Limpopo police spokesperson Colonel Moatshe Ngoepe told News24 that Maupa was killed on Monday night outside his restaurant in Tubatse, near Burgersfort.
"The deceased, aged 42, allegedly arrived at this place to assist his wife to close up… and was accosted by an unknown vehicle, and the suspect suddenly started firing shots," Ngoepe said.
His wife survived the shooting.
'Beginning of the onslaught'
Pastor Derick Mosoana, president of Christians of South Africa (Cosa), told The Star that this was the "beginning of the onslaught". Mosoana reportedly said that there had been several attacks on the group of councillors "that is against VBS".
In a report titled "The great bank heist", which was published by the South African Reserve Bank last month, advocate Terry Motau found that the looting of the bank, through the creation of fictitious deposits, totalled more than R2bn.
Several high-ranking politicians have been implicated in the looting of VBS.
Maupa was outspoken about VBS on social media, posting a composite picture on his Facebook page with the message: "#VBS Bank!!! Bring back the money. We want our money for service delivery."
The composite contains a screenshot of an eNCA broadcast that states that the Burgersfort municipality in Limpopo had invested R245m in VBS.
Fetakgomo Tubatse Local Municipality lost R230m that was invested in VBS. In July, Mayor Maudu Phokane said he was unsure if the R230m invested with the controversial VBS bank would be recovered, Steelburger News reported.
Municipality invested R230m in VBS
"We can confirm that an amount of R230m was invested with VBS Mutual Bank from November 10, 2016, to January 10, 2018. It is not clear at this stage whether the monies will be recovered," Phokane reportedly said.
According to IOL, Maupa had been receiving death threats and was gunned down following a council meeting in which he "called for decisive measures to be taken against his political seniors implicated in the VBS scandal".
Ngoepe however said that the motive for the killing was unknown and confirmed that cases of murder and attempted murder were being investigated.
"The police are offering a reward of up to R50 000 for any valuable information that can lead to the arrest and subsequent conviction of the suspect(s) responsible these crimes," said Ngoepe.
Three Tshwane Emergency Services paramedics were robbed at gunpoint while attending to a patient in the back of a City ambulance in Soshanguve (Block GG) over the weekend.
The City of Tshwane said it was dismayed at the senseless and shameless robbing of the paramedics.
"On Saturday, November 24, in the early hours of the morning, two armed persons forced our paramedics to hand over their cash, cellphones and personal belongings before fleeing the scene," the City said in a statement.  
Read: Western Cape bans paramedics from entering 'red' zones without police
"Fortunately, the paramedics sustained no injuries during the robbery. The incident was reported to the Phuthanong Police Station and a case was opened to search and apprehend these criminals.
"We strongly condemn this shameless and heartless attack on our members by persons who have no morals or empathy for the service our emergency personnel is rendering in the interest of saving lives while risking their own", said member of the mayoral committee responsible for community safety, Councillor Derrick Kissoonduth.
Members of the community are urged to expose these perpetrators - report them to the nearest police station or Tshwane Metro Police station - as this is not the first attack on our emergency personnel whilst on duty, MMC Kissoonduth added.
In October last year, two paramedics were robbed at gunpoint in Alexandra, north of Johannesburg, News24 reported.
A man in his 20s was shot dead in a suspected robbery in KwaMashu north of Durban.
Netcare 911 said in a statement that it responded to reports of a shooting at a shopping centre in the area on Wednesday afternoon.
"Reports from the scene indicate that a male believed to be in his twenties sustained a fatal gunshot wound while sitting in the passenger seat of a car in a suspected robbery," spokesperson Shawn Herbst said in a statement.
"The patient was assessed and declared deceased on the scene by an advanced life support paramedic."
A woman who was believed to be a family member of the deceased and who was the driver of the vehicle was also shot, the statement read.
She sustained a gunshot wound to her right leg and was transported by another ambulance service to hospital in a stable condition.
"Circumstances leading up to the shooting at this stage is unknown and will be investigated by the SAPS who were in scene," Herbst said.
A convicted murderer gave chilling evidence in court on Wednesday regarding the role she played in the murders of 11 people by an alleged satanic cult in the Krugersdorp area.
Marinda Steyn told the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg how she participated in the brutal killings but denied that the killings were satanic.
Marinda, a former school teacher, is currently serving 11 life terms and an additional 115 years in jail. Her son, Le Roux Steyn, turned State witness and is currently serving an effective 25 years. The two were separately sentenced in May.
Marinda's daughter, Marcel Steyn, 20, Zack Valentine, 33, and Cecilia Steyn have pleaded not guilty and are standing trial.
Outstanding post mortem and DNA test results, have led to the postponement of a case in which a man is accused of killing and mutilating his sister and nephew over  R20.
Sisipho Pita, 25, briefly appeared in the Tembisa Magistrate's Court in Ekurhuleni on Wednesday, where the case was postponed to January 29, 2019.
He has been charged with two counts of murder.
During his first appearance on October 17, Pita walked barefoot into the courtroom. He abandoned his bail application.
READ: Man kills sister and nephew over R20 (Warning: sensitive details)
He allegedly killed his sister Fundiswa Pita, 28, and her 13-month-old son, Lwasanga, on the morning of October 13 in a rented room in Tembisa, which they shared.
Pita was found sitting next to the bodies while the knife allegedly used in the attack was at his feet. 
Fundiswa's bloodied body was found on the floor while the toddler's body was found on the bed.
Her throat had been slit and her left eye and an index finger were missing. Lwasanga's penis was also missing.
Fundiswa's other child, Bayanda, 10, was at school at the time of the attack. 
Police spokesperson Captain Nelsah Sekgobela earlier said Pita confessed to the killings, saying that they fought over a R20.
Situation is tense
The event sparked fear among community members and some of them demanded that Pita be kept in custody.
Mbongeni Masondo, who lives in the main house, said the situation there was tense.
"This incident can't be forgotten easily. It is still fresh in our minds. Whenever I look at their door, I think I will see Fundiswa and her toddler. Fundiswa's mother and Bayanda are still residing with us. She is unemployed and has nowhere to go.
"Her daughter (Fundiswa) was the only breadwinner. Now her mother can't afford to pay rent. As a family, we understand her situation and are assisting them where we can," Masondo added.
Pita's cousin, Jeniffer Pita, visited him at the Modderbee Correctional Facility in Ekurhuleni twice since his incarceration.
"I have visited and spoken to him. He said he doesn't remember what happened on that fateful day. I have tried to explain to him why he is in prison and he claims that he can't recall anything. So far, he has not complained to me about anything. I am planning to visit him again next week," she said.
Two men were sentenced to life in prison on Tuesday for the 2016 murder of a 77-year-old farmer in Paulpietersburg, KwaZulu-Natal.
According to KwaZulu-Natal police spokesperson Nqobile Gwala, 30-year-old Sthembiso Domoyi Shoba and Sabelo Abel Shoba, 29, were sentenced to life imprisonment for murder.
Shoba was also sentenced to 10 years for attempted murder and 15 years for robbery, while his co-accused was sentenced to 15 years for attempted murder and robbery.
A third suspect remains at large.
According to Gwala, on May 13, 2016, 77-year-old pensioner Frieder Johannes Filter was with his family at Brainsweight farm when the armed men – carrying guns and knives – approached him.
Filter was shot dead, while a farm worker was shot in both of his legs. The men took the farm worker’s cellphone, but nothing was stolen from the house.
According to statistics released by Police Minister Bheki Cele in May, since 2012 there have been 3 059 attacks reported to police, averaging 510 attacks a year, in which 338 people – roughly 56 a year – were killed.
The figures showed that over the six-year period, the North West province had the highest number of attacks, at 722, followed by Gauteng with 644. 
The so-called Dros rapist is still waiting to be admitted to the Weskoppies psychiatric hospital, Netwerk24 reported.
He is meant to be evaluated to determine whether he could be held accountable for raping a 7-year-old girl in the bathroom of a Dros restaurant in Pretoria in September.
The man is expected back in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Wednesday.
According to Netwerk24, the case is likely to be postponed owing to the shortage of beds at Weskoppies. The man is meant to be admitted for 30 days' observation but is reportedly still on a waiting list.
During his previous court appearance on November 1, the court granted an application brought by the State and the defence to have the 20-year-old accused referred for mental observation.
OVERVIEW: Magistrate grants application to send Dros rape accused for mental observation


Additionally, the court granted an application by the defence to appoint an additional psychiatrist and clinical psychologist making up a team of four experts who will observe the accused while he is in Weskoppies, which is a government psychiatrist institution.
Legal aid lawyer Riaan du Plessis, for the accused, told the court that there was a need to explore the mental state of the accused at the time of the alleged incident.
He added that the accused was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2013 and has been using drugs since he was 14 years old.
It was put on record that the accused had previously undergone rehabilitation for substance abuse.
"He also tried to commit suicide because of the severe depression of having bipolar," said Du Plessis.
State advocate Sanet Jacobson told the court that it was in the interests of justice that the accused be referred to Weskoppies for psychiatric observation.
"[His] criminal capacity might be a relevant issue to pursue because a substance was found on him," said Jacobson.
News24 previously reported that the accused was at the restaurant where he allegedly followed the 7-year-old child to a bathroom and raped her.
A video, taken moments after the alleged incident, showed a man covered in blood and angry patrons berating him.
The accused has not yet brought an application for his release on bail, nor has he pleaded to the charges.
*News24 has taken a decision not to identify the accused until he has pleaded in court as stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Act.
According to Section 154(2b) of the Criminal Procedure Act: No person shall at any stage before the appearance of an accused in a court upon any charge referred to in section 153(3) or at any stage after such appearance but before the accused has pleaded to the charge, publish in any manner whatever any information relating to the charge in question.
Section 153(3) refers to criminal proceedings related to sexual offences charges.
Once the accused has pleaded to the charges, News24 will reveal his identity in accordance with the law.
The man accused of raping a 7-year-old girl in the bathroom of a Dros restaurant in Pretoria is expected back in the Pretoria Magistrate's Court on Wednesday.
During his previous court appearance on November 1, the court granted an application brought by the State and the defence to have the 20-year-old accused referred for mental observation.
OVERVIEW: Magistrate grants application to send Dros rape accused for mental observation
Additionally, the court also granted an application by the defence to appoint an additional psychiatrist and clinical psychologist making up a team of four experts who will observe the accused while he is in Weskoppies, which is a government psychiatrist institution. 
Legal aid lawyer Riaan du Plessis, for the accused, told the court that there was a need to explore the mental state of the accused at the time of the alleged incident. 
He added that the accused was diagnosed with bipolar disorder in 2013 and has been using drugs since he was 14 years old. 
It was put on record that the accused had previously undergone rehabilitation for substance abuse. 
"He also tried to commit suicide because of the severe depression of having bipolar," said Du Plessis. 
Read: Dros rape accused claims police, public assaulted him
State advocate Sanet Jacobson told the court that it was in the interests of justice that the accused be referred to Weskoppies for psychiatric observation. 
"[His] criminal capacity might be a relevant issue to pursue because a substance was found on him," said Jacobson. 
Outstanding toxicology report
The court also heard that the DNA forensic evidence had been received but that the State was still awaiting an outstanding toxicology report on the substance found on the accused at the time of the alleged rape.  
News24 previously reported that the accused was at the restaurant where he allegedly followed the 7-year-old child to a bathroom and raped her.
A video, taken moments after the alleged incident, showed a man covered in blood and angry patrons berating him.
The accused has not yet brought an application for his release on bail, nor has he pleaded to the charges.
*News24 has taken a decision not to identify the accused until he has pleaded in court as stipulated in the Criminal Procedure Act.
According to Section 154(2b) of the Criminal Procedure Act: No person shall at any stage before the appearance of an accused in a court upon any charge referred to in section 153(3) or at any stage after such appearance but before the accused has pleaded to the charge, publish in any manner whatever any information relating to the charge in question.
Section 153(3) refers to criminal proceedings related to sexual offences charges.
Once the accused has pleaded to the charges, News24 will reveal his identity in accordance with the law.
The alleged ringleader of a so-called satanic cult, who allegedly killed 11 people, told the South Gauteng High Court in Johannesburg that she was a devoted reborn Christian since 1996.
Dressed in a black jacket, white shirt and black pants, Cecilia Steyn, 37, denied being a vampire, a satanist who possesses supernatural powers and a forty-second generation witch.
Instead, she claimed she had been baptised three times.
Cecilia Steyn, 33-year-old Zak Valentine and 20-year-old Marcel Steyn are on trial.
Marinda Steyn, a former teacher and Marcel's mother, was previously sentenced to 11 life terms and 115 years in jail for her part in the murders. Her son - Le Roux Steyn - turned State witness and is currently serving an effective 25 years in prison. Le Roux and his mother were each sentenced separately in May.
Another man, John Barnard, was sentenced to an effective 20 years behind bars in 2016.
Spent time with goths
On Tuesday, Cecilia Steyn claimed that she spent a lot of time with goths in high school and this could have given people the impression that she was a satanist.
"Since high school, I have never been involved in satanic cults. I don't know why witnesses claim that I was a satanist. I can't read their minds. Basically, people around me wanted to have tattoos. They all (later) got tattoos for different reasons. I didn't promote them to get tattoos similar to mine."
READ: Huisgenoot reporter suspended for having 'affair' with one of the 'Krugersdorp Killers'
Steyn claimed that she didn't run a cult and said there were no satanic prayer meetings in her house. Instead, she said people would come to her house and they would sit in the kitchen discussing many things, such as fishing.
"I was not a ringleader of any enterprise. Ninety percent of our meetings, we would spend them in my bedroom."
She also told the court that Le Roux Steyn was a drug addict who used crystal meth and marijuana.
"I confronted him about his drug problem and asked him not to smoke in front of my son. I don't know why he would say I destroyed his life and why he hated me. He thought I favoured Marcel over him because I would give Marcel my car to drive - not him," she said.
The witness denied killing any of the victims or assisting Valentine to fake his own death to claim from his life cover policy.
"I realised at a later stage that people who belonged to my group were killed," she said.
Fake insurance claim
Valentine allegedly faked his own death by fabricating a new identity and setting alight an unidentified man inside his vehicle near Petrus Steyn, in the Free State on December 16, 2015.
She said she knew Valentine since 1994 or 1995 when they met at church.
"I did Zak a favour by paying for his insurance policy which was in arrears. I freaked out when he disappeared, and I began phoning police stations and hospitals in the Free State. Zak had nominated me as one of his beneficiaries to his life cover.
"I didn't ask him to make me a beneficiary. He had his own parents and a brother. He was not talking to his parents after he pierced his ears," she said.
She and Valentine once had a discussion about how his life policy would be distributed if he died.
She added that she had received R500 000 from Valentine. She claimed some money was commission due to her after she made appointments for Valentine's clients. She says a large amount of that money was paid to her psychologist.
A fearless gang of robbers are unleashing terror in Ashdown and residents say they have had enough.
Now, the community is calling on the Police Ministry to set up a high level task team to probe the crime in the area, which has also led to the murders of key witnesses in cases involving the gang.
The hits are allegedly being ordered by members of the gang who are behind bars.
Seven witnesses — including two state witnesses, in a string of cases in the area including high profile murders, business robberies, rape and car hijackings — have been killed since April, resulting in some of the cases being dropped.
Residents and sources close to the investigations said four members of the gang have been released from jail as the cases against them have collapsed due to the murders of witnesses.
In recent incidents, two teenagers from the township, one of them who was later murdered, were raped, allegedly by members of the crime syndicate.
Matric pupil Lindiwe Bowes was found murdered in a pool of blood on November 10.
The 18-year-old was killed after she had opened a rape case against one of the kingpins in the gang.
The Witness was informed that since her death, one of Lindiwe’s relatives has also been receiving death threats.
The residents are demanding witness protection for Lindiwe’s family and the family of the 16-year-old rape survivor.
In October, The Witness reported that a 16-year-old girl was abducted on her way home from a wedding and was drugged, gang-raped and stabbed.
A source close to the investigation, said a police task team deployed to fight crime from Plessislaer police station earlier this year, had arrested 10 members of the gang.
“Four of them are still in jail and the two that turned state witnesses were killed soon after their release. I do not know what is being done to protect witnesses,” said the source.
“Even Bowes was supposed to have gone to witness protection in April and all arrangements had been made for her to go to Limpopo where she would have written her matric, but that did not happen,” said the source.
On Monday, the outraged residents staged a march to the Plessislaer police station saying “enough is enough”.
Ward councillor Dumisani Phungula said the crime rate in Ashdown was shocking.
“People can’t walk a kilometre without looking over their shoulders. Perpetrators are roaming free in our streets even after [we have] laid charges against them. We have had enough of our women being brutally raped and murdered,” said Phungula.
He said there have been several incidents involving unknown vehicles whose occupants had robbed residents.
Phungula said certain areas, including the Ashdown Bridge, Peace Valley 2 Bridge and the railway line in Gomora, had become no-go zones.
A memorandum outlining crime matters that should be considered was handed to the Plessislaer police.
The memorandum demanded that police be visible on the streets on a daily basis and that they should respond quickly when crime takes place.
The residents also demanded that police communicate their programme of action to the community and asked that safety budgets be increased in the area.
“We are frustrated and dissatisfied by the persistent failure of this police station to effectively attend to pending cases,” said Phungula.
Over 10 residents came forward with case numbers of cases they said have never been investigated.
The community also accused some Plessislaer police officials and reservists of supplying drugs in the area.
“There is a large number of drug outlets in this area and there are officials who frequent them. What are they doing there if no one is being arrested? It’s clear that they are working with the drug lords,” said one community member.
Attempts to get comment from police from November 11 with regards to the murders of witnesses, have been unsuccessful despite numerous subsequent requests for comment.
Plessislaer police station commander Brigadier Mduduzi Shezi said he would escalate the grievances to his superiors and respond within 14 days.
Former Northern Cape finance MEC John Block has started his 15-year prison sentence.
The former provincial ANC chairperson handed himself over to a correctional facility in Kimberley on Tuesday morning. This was confirmed by Department of Correctional Services deputy regional commissioner Kenneth Mthombeni.
Block and businessman Christo Scholtz were convicted of corruption and were sentenced to 15 years in prison. The Constitutional Court dismissed their applications for leave to appeal their sentences and convictions last week.
Mthombeni said he could not vouch for Scholtz, who had not handed himself over by Tuesday morning. It is not yet clear when or where he will do so. 
This followed the dismissal of their applications for leave to appeal in the Supreme Court of Appeal (SCA). The SCA ruled in August that a message needed to be sent out that corruption would not be tolerated.
The Northern Cape High Court previously found that Block had corruptly used his political influence to ensure that Scholtz' Trifecta group of companies were awarded lease agreements with various Northern Cape governmental departments between 2006 and 2008.
In exchange, Block received gratifications, including two payments of R228 000 and R500 000, which the SCA held were "solely" for the purpose of concluding the lease agreements with Trifecta. 
The Colorado woman who was dating Chris Watts when he killed his pregnant wife and two young children reportedly made a number of online searches seemingly related to the couple’s possible future together, including for wedding dresses.
Nichol Kessinger, who previously revealed to The Denver Post that she “believed” Watts when he told her he was nearing the close of his divorce proceedings, looked up “marrying your mistress” on Google and spent more than two hours browsing the search engine “for wedding dresses,” according to investigative documents from the Weld County District Attorney’s Office that were acquired by People.
The searches reportedly occurred on Aug. 4 and Aug. 8, respectively – not long before Watts’ wife, Shanann – who at the time was 15 weeks pregnant – and their two daughters were reported missing that month.
Watts has since been convicted and sentenced to life in prison for his role in their murders.
GRIM DETAILS IN CASE OF COLORADO MAN WHO KILLED FAMILY REVEALED IN NEW REPORT
Kessinger also looked up “Man I’m having affair with says he will leave his wife” in late July, according to People. The outlet also revealed photos of the couple included in the documents, which showed them smiling and appearing happy together.
Kessinger, 30, previously told The Denver Post that she had been dating Watts for less than two months and “barely knew him” when his family members disappeared over the summer.
The pair reportedly crossed paths at work and by July their relationship had progressed and became physical. Kessinger also told The Post that only after Watts’ family disappeared and news outlets began reporting on it did she learn the truth.
GIRLFRIEND OF COLORADO MAN WHO PLEADED GUILTY TO KILLING FAMILY SPEAKS OUT ON ‘HORRIFIC’ ACT
“When I read the news, I found out he was still married and his wife was 15 weeks pregnant,” Kessinger said. “I thought, ‘If he was able to lie to me and hide something that big, what else was he lying about?’”
After speaking to Watts and ultimately telling him that she “did not want to speak to him again until his family was found,” Kessinger told The Post that she contacted the Weld County Sheriff’s Office and told them of her relationship.
“I just wanted to help,” she said. “With a pregnant woman and two children missing, I was going to do anything that I could.”
Fox News’ Katherine Lam contributed to this report.
A man who was a passenger in a car that fatally rammed a police officer in a Salt Lake City suburb has been arrested on suspicion of murder, burglary and other charges, police said.
As suspect Jeffrey Don Black, 43, was being led away in handcuffs Monday night from a police station, he insisted he didn't know a person had been killed.


A Message from McDonald's
Hard Skills vs. Soft Skills
Hard skills become obsolete after 18 months yet teamwork, storytelling, and empathy with customers never wears out. McDonald's is investing over $150MM to give employe...
"I didn't know it was a cop. I thought it was a mailbox," he said before expressing his sympathy about the death.
Police allowed Black to stop and answer questions in an unusual exchange with reporters who had received a police news release about when Black would be led from the station.
Black was arrested in the Saturday death of South Salt Lake Police Officer David Romrell, who was struck when he tried to stop a car while investigating a burglary report, police said.
Black isn't accused of directly causing the officer's death, but under Utah law accomplices are considered equally responsible for fatalities during crimes, and Black was involved in the burglary and subsequent chase, said Sgt. Melody Gray with Unified Police of Salt Lake County. He has not yet been formally charged.
After officers arrived, driver Felix Anthony Calata, 31, accelerated and fatally struck Romrell, police said. Calata was shot and killed by police.
Officers caught Black after the crash, but Unified Police said there was no probable cause for an arrest and released him. They later said Black provided false information, but authorities did not elaborate.
Pleas by Romrell's widow prompted police to reopen the investigation and collect more evidence, South Salt Lake police spokesman Gary Keller said.
Black told reporters he had known Calata for a few days and was with him Saturday night to recover money owed to Calata.
Police say in jail documents that Calata had tried unsuccessfully to use a crowbar to enter a building, and he and Black were leaving in a car when they saw police. Black heard police yell for them to stop, but Catala decided instead to hit the gas to try and get away, the documents state.
When officers shot and killed Calata, Black steered the car into a traffic pole then ran and hid beneath a boat until police found him.
Court records show Black has a criminal history that includes DUI, forgery and drug charges. An attorney listed for him in a separate case declined to comment.
Paris - The Paris prosecutor's office says an investigation has been opened after one of the hostages in the January attacks around Paris accused some television and radio stations of having put his life in danger and sued them.
Twenty people were killed, including the three attackers, in the Islamic extremist attacks around Paris that ended with police raids on a printing plant and a kosher supermarket where hostages were being held.
At the printing plant north of Paris, hostage Lilian Lepere was hiding in a cupboard under a sink, apparently unknown to the gunmen, when at least three television and radio stations revealed his possible presence. He was eventually released unharmed.
Lepere's lawyer, Antoine Casubolo Ferro, told The Associated Press that the complaint aims to increase media awareness of life-threatening situations.
"Delivering information without careful consideration may lead to endanger other's lives. Journalists must think of it," he said.
On January 9, as the police surrounded the printing plant, lawmaker Yves Albarello revealed on radio station RMC that an employee was hiding in the building.
Later, Lepere's sister Cindy confirmed in an interview to public television station France 2 that she believed her brother to be in the plant and that the family had stopped calling him in order to not compromise his hiding. Meanwhile, a journalist of TF1 television also reported the information.
In February, France's broadcasting watchdog issued formal warnings to 16 French television and radio stations over their coverage of terrorist attacks, hostage-takings and police standoffs.
The watchdog agency, known as CSA, notably accused the stations of putting the lives of hostages in danger. It also reprimanded two stations for broadcasting images of radical gunmen shooting a policeman in the head outside the offices of newspaper Charlie Hebdo.
Paris - Four people including a policewoman have been taken into custody over suspected links to the attacks that terrorized Paris in January, police and security officials said on Monday.
One man - who was already jailed in another case - had ties to Amedy Coulibaly, the gunman who killed a policewoman on 8 January and then four more people at a kosher supermarket on 9 January before being killed by security forces, said the two officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity because the investigation is ongoing.
They said the detained man's ex-girlfriend, a policewoman who was suspended after peeking into his criminal file, was also in custody.
The officials had no details about the two others in custody.
No one besides three dead gunmen have been linked directly to the attacks at the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo and the market, which left 20 people dead, including the gunmen.
Coulibaly's widow left for Syria days before the attacks.
No one with ties to Said or Cherif Kouachi, the brothers who killed 12 people at Charlie Hebdo, is in custody or has been formally sought since the attacks.
Paris - France is tracking hundreds of people believed to belong to possible sleeper cells for terror organisations like al-Qaeda or the Islamic State group, the country's top security official said.
In an interview with The Associated Press, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve laid out what has become an increasingly urgent question for European intelligence services: How to trace the moment when someone transforms from a disgruntled criminal or a disaffected citizen into a terrorist, and how to block those first steps toward radicalisation.
"Four hundred targets have been identified by our intelligence services that are more or less sleeper cells, affiliated or in relation with al-Qaeda-type organisations, that can strike like the Kouachi brothers," Cazeneuve said in an interview late on Monday.
Said and Cherif Kouachi were French-born brothers who killed 12 people in Paris on 7 January when they stormed the satirical newspaper Charlie Hebdo. They were shot dead by police in a confrontation two days later.
Cazeneuve said he wants new measures to give intelligence services more leeway to monitor suspects' electronic communications. He is heading to the United States on Wednesday to try and persuade internet giants to step up and help stem extremists' ability to use propaganda videos to recruit and indoctrinate new followers.
Facebook, Twitter, Apple and Google - all major vectors for increasingly sophisticated jihadi clips targeting potential followers in the West - will be among his stops in Silicon Valley.
"Ninety percent of those who commit terrorist acts fall into it after regularly consulting websites or blogs that call for or provoke terrorism," Cazeneuve said.
With the news that the suspected gunman in the deadly Copenhagen attacks this weekend may have been radicalised during a series of stints in jail - like at least two of the gunmen in the Paris attacks last month - Cazeneuve's trip to the US to strengthen intelligence sharing between governments and win over the tech firms takes on added importance.
The pace of foreign fighters joining the Islamic State and other extremist groups has not slowed and at least 3 400 come from Western nations among 20 000 from around the world, US intelligence officials say.
"We won't be able to deal with this subject by always brushing the dust under the rug," Cazeneuve said. "At some point the dust gets thicker than the rug."
Surveillance
The minister said the Kouachi brothers were under French surveillance from 2011 until 2014 after the US government tipped off the French about Said Kouachi's trip to Yemen, but the monitoring produced nothing that indicated the brothers were on the verge of a deadly attack.
Cherif Kouachi had served time for being part of a jihadi recruiting network and was apparently behind bars when he met the third Paris gunman, Amedy Coulibaly, a small-time criminal who became radicalised in prison. Coulibaly pledged allegiance to the Islamic State group in a posthumously released video that is still circulating among jihadis.
"When you have terrorists who keep a low profile for years and then suddenly decide to act - either to obey an order from large terrorist organisation such as al-Qaeda or of their own volition - then you need to be able to monitor them on a long term," the minister said.
Further worrying European officials are the networks of radicals in jail who use their prison terms to influence others behind bars.
"You have a few of them who maintain that religious fanaticism, which very likely didn't start that way, but they use it to have an excuse to be angry and do all these ugly things," Kim Oesterbye, head of the Danish Prison Officers Union, told The Associated Press. "If we see people who change toward having more radical behaviour, then we can report it."
In the Danish shootings case, prison officials last year alerted PET, the domestic intelligence agency, to the suspected Danish gunman but the report gave no indication he was planning an attack. Two sources close to the case identified the gunman to the AP as Omar Abdel Hamid El-Hussein but Danish authorities have not yet released his name.
France also is pushing to treat jihadi material on the internet like child porn, a task that before the attacks in Paris was getting scant traction but now seems to have caught the attention of Europe's top security officials.
"Everyone agrees now that legislation that prevents the diffusion of child pornography is protecting citizens from crime. It is the same for terrorism," Cazeneuve said. "Calling for anti-Semitism, calling for crimes, calling for murder, calling for the killing of Jews or journalists - that's not about freedom of expression. That is a criminal act."
Copenhagen - Danish police said on Sunday a gunman killed by officers after two fatal shootings in Copenhagen may have been inspired by last month's Islamist attacks in Paris.
The man, believed to be the sole perpetrator of what the Danish prime minister called "a cynical act of terror", was previously known to intelligence services, police said.
He "may have been inspired by the events that took place in Paris a few weeks ago," Jens Madsen from the Security and Intelligence Service told reporters.
He added that the man may "generally have been inspired by militant Islamist propaganda issued by ISIS [Islamic State] and other terror organisations."
He said police were looking into the possibility that the man had travelled to conflict zones such as Syria and Iraq.
The gunman, who was not further identified, was believed to be behind two separate shootings that shocked Denmark's usually peaceful capital.
On Saturday, a 55-year-old man was killed at a panel discussion about Islam and free speech attended by Lars Vilks, a Swedish cartoonist behind a controversial caricature of the Prophet Muhammad.
In the second attack, a 37-year-old Jewish man was killed outside Copenhagen's main synagogue early on Sunday. Five police officers were wounded in the two attacks.
"We believe the same man was behind both shootings and we also believe that the perpetrator who was shot by the police action force at Noerrebro station is the person behind the two attacks," senior police official Torben Moelgaard Jensen told a press conference.
The first lethal attacks on Danish soil in decades were branded "deplorable" by the United States and triggered condemnation around the world.
'Day of sorrow'
"We have experienced the ugly taste of fear and powerlessness which terror hopes to create," Prime Minister Helle Thorning-Schmidt told a briefing, saying Denmark was experiencing "a day of sorrow".
"We will defend our democracy and we will defend Denmark at any time," she said.
The killing of the suspected attacker capped a massive police manhunt launched after the gunman fled the scene following both shootings.
The shootout took place shortly before dawn in the neighbourhood of Noerrebro, where police had been keeping an address under observation.
Police said video surveillance had led them to believe that the man killed by armed police was behind both attacks, but that they were still investigating whether he was acting alone.
The shooting came at the end of a night of fear that had gripped the city of about one million, which had been spared major attacks in recent years.
The central area of Copenhagen that is home to both the synagogue and Noerreport station, the country's busiest rail hub, was cordoned off by police carrying machine guns.
Swedish security services told AFP they were on alert for any attempt by a suspect to cross the bridge linking Denmark with Sweden.
Increased controls introduced at the border with Germany were relaxed after the killing of the suspected attacker, Denmark's TV2 reported.
Michael Gelvan, chairperson of the Nordic Jewish Security Council, told AFP the victim at the synagogue was a young Jewish man who had been providing security for a ceremony.
Danish police had released a photo of the suspect in the cultural centre attack, wearing a black puffer jacket and a maroon balaclava and carrying a black bag.
Spectre of Charlie Hebdo attack
The windows of the cultural centre were pockmarked by bullet holes, and the BBC released chilling audio of the moment a speaker at the event was interrupted by a volley of gunshots.
France's ambassador to Denmark, Francois Zimeray, who attended the debate but was unhurt in the attack, told AFP the shooting was an attempt to replicate the 7 January attack on Charlie Hebdo magazine in Paris, which was targeted because it had published cartoons lampooning the Prophet Muhammad.
"They shot from the outside [and] had the same intention as Charlie Hebdo, only they didn't manage to get in," the ambassador said.
"Intuitively I would say there were at least 50 gunshots, and the police here are saying 200," he said.
"Bullets went through the doors and everyone threw themselves to the floor."
The shootings come at a time of heightened security and rising fears of Islamist violence in Europe.
Dozens of suspected jihadists have been arrested across Europe since mid-January and stocks of weapons and explosives have been uncovered.
Paris - Six individuals suspected of belonging to a terrorist network were arrested in southern France on Sunday, the French interior minister said.
In a short statement, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said police arrested the suspects early on Sunday morning in the Toulouse and Albi regions. It gave no further details.
France is on high alert one month after the Islamist attacks in Paris, in which 17 people were killed. Police are struggling to monitor an estimated 1 200 radical Islamists and some 200 people who have returned from fighting with militant groups in Syria and Iraq.
The arrests come five days after police broke up another suspected terrorism ring north of Paris in Saint-Seine-Denis and in the Lyon area, arresting eight people.
On Saturday, investigating magistrates put five individuals in that case under formal investigation, Interior Minister Bernard Cazeneuve said.
Kabul - A protest in the Afghan capital, Kabul, on Saturday against the French satirical magazine Charlie Hebdo, turned into a violent confrontation between riot police and demonstrators, police said.
Farid Afzeli, chief of the Kabul police department's criminal investigations division, said several hundred demonstrators gathered in eastern Kabul on Saturday afternoon to protest the magazine's ongoing practice of running satirical caricatures depicting the Prophet Muhammad.
Afzeli says the protest started peacefully, but says a group of armed infiltrators began blocking roads, throwing rocks and shooting at police officers on the scene. Police responded by calling in reinforcements and firing in the air to disperse the crowd, he said.
At one point, the crowd attempted to attack several government buildings and a local bank, but they were blocked by police. Afzeli said eight demonstrators were injured and one police officer was wounded by gunfire.
No arrests were made and the incident is under investigation, Afzeli said.
Mumbai - Police on Thursday arrested and bailed the editor of an Urdu-language newspaper in Mumbai for reprinting a cartoon of the Prophet Muhammad from satirical French magazine Charlie Hebdo.
Shirin Dalvi, the editor of the Mumbai edition of the daily Avadhnama newspaper, was arrested by police in the town of Mumbra, close close to the financial capital.
She was arrested under sections of the Indian penal code, which bans malicious and deliberate acts intended to outrage religious feelings.
The Indian Express said several readers approached the police after the newspaper reprinted the Charlie Hebdo cover image, which was published after gunmen stormed the magazine's offices in Paris on 7 January and killed 12 people. 


Tens of thousands across Muslim-majority Indian Kashmir, Afghanistan and Pakistan last week took to the streets to protest against Charlie Hebdo's cartoon portrayal of the Prophet Muhammad.


Images of the prophet are considered blasphemous by many Muslims and the magazine's publishing of the cartoon has triggered protests in Muslim countries around the world
Paris - An 8-year-old boy from the south of France who claimed to support the men who attacked the satirical weekly Charlie Hebdo was detained and questioned by police for defending terrorism.
Fabienne Lewandowski, deputy director for public security in the Alpes-Maritimes region, said on Thursday that the boy declared "I am with the terrorists" and refused to take part in the national minute of silence for the victims.
The storming of the newspaper offices left 12 people dead and launched three days of terror in the Paris region that killed a total of 20 people, including the gunmen.
A lawyer for the child says the decision to question the child at a police station shows a "collective hysteria". Dozens of people have been arrested and accused of defending terrorism since the attacks.
Paris - Circulation of the "survivors'" issue of Charlie Hebdo, published after a deadly attack on the French satirical weekly's Paris office, is set to top seven million, the distributor says.
A total of 6.3 million copies were for France alone, amid an outpouring of grief and anger over the attack by two Islamist gunmen earlier this month which left 12 people dead, including some of Charlie Hebdo's top cartoonists. Five more people were killed in related attacks by a separate gunman.
Another 700 000 copies have been sent to overseas markets, the distributor Messageries lyonnaises de presse (MLP) said.
The edition dubbed the "survivors' issue" was published on 14 January, a week after the attack. Before then an average circulation for the controversial weekly, which lampoons everyone from the president to the pope, was 60 000.


Cartoon portrayal
The new edition featured a cartoon of Islam's Prophet Muhammed on its front cover, sparking protests across the Muslim world, which had already been angered by past Charlie Hebdo depictions of the prophet.
Tens of thousands of people across Afghanistan, Pakistan and Muslim-majority Indian Kashmir took to the streets on Friday for southern Asia's biggest protests yet against the cartoon portrayal of the prophet.
Printing of the magazine continues, with MLP still delivering copies to newstands.
"Everything that could be distributed has been sold," MLP said
Paris - Four men were charged with belonging to a terrorist organisation and one was charged with illegal possession of weapons in connection with a series of terrorist attacks in Paris this month, prosecutor Francois Molins told a press conference on Wednesday.
The four had been detained last week, and brought before the court to prolong their detention on the charges on Tuesday. The prosecutor said none of them is being investigated for murder.
According to Molins, all four remain in custody. The AFP news agency reported that three of them are "in provisional detention, in accordance with requests from prosecutors".
Another is subject to an order of provisional imprisonment, the prosecutor said, pending an appearance before a specialized magistrate at the end of the week.






Jurors heard the boy accepted meeting Sokolova in the park, where he claims consensual sexual activity took place. He denies murder.
Mr Rees said: “We understand it is his case that Viktorija was alive and well when he parted from her in the park in order to go home.
“It follows therefore, on his case, that someone else, or some other people, must have come along after he left and were responsible for attacking her and stripping her, before leaving her partially naked over the bench.”
The trial continues and is expected to last for at least two weeks.
Additional reporting by Press Association
Four people killed. Two suspicious fires. While many people were busy with the Thanksgiving weekend, a dramatic case in suburban New Jersey grew clouded by more questions than answers.
Keith M. Caneiro, 50, and his wife and children were found dead at their large home in Colts Neck, N.J., two days before the holiday. The mansion had subsequently erupted in flames that took firefighters hours to extinguish. Hours earlier, the nearby home of Paul J. Caneiro, Keith’s brother, had also been set ablaze, law enforcement officials said.
By the next day, the police had arrested Paul Caneiro, 51, accusing him of setting his  Ocean Township house on fire while his wife and daughters were inside.
As law enforcement officials continued to investigate the killings and fire in the affluent enclave of Colts Neck, funeral services for Keith Caneiro and his family — his wife, Jennifer Karidis Caneiro, 45; their son, Jesse, 11; and their daughter, Sophia, 8 — were scheduled for Sunday.
Authorities suspect Greece's deadliest wildfire in decades was a result of arson. 
The government said satellite image analysis and ground inspections provided "serious indications" the blaze, which broke out in a number of places on Monday, was set deliberately. 
The fire killed at least 82 people, but rescue crews and volunteers continue to search on land and at sea for more victims.
"We have serious indications and significant findings of criminal activity concerning arson," public order minister Nikos Toskas said on Thursday.
"We are troubled by many factors, and there have been physical findings that are the subject of an investigation."
The fire department's special arson section, which investigates all major fires, was conducting the probe to determine how the wildfire started. The cause of the blaze in Rafina, northeast of Athens, has not been established.
Before Mr Toskas' news conference, the mayor of the area where it broke out said it might have been sparks from a severed electricity pylon cable.
Relatives of victims headed to the Athens mortuary to seek the fate of loved ones still missing. Many of the bodies were burned beyond recognition, making identification difficult.
Families were informed about the steps needed to match one of the bodies held there to a missing person, including providing DNA samples and dental records.
"The procedure is difficult, harder than that of other mass disasters which we have dealt with in the past as a forensics department," coroner Nikolaos Kalogrias said.
"Here, the main cause of death was burning, in most cases the complete burning (of the body), so identification is very difficult."
Germany's federal criminal police said a team of its forensics specialists was in Greece to help authorities identify the dead.
The team members have worked on major disasters such as the 2002 plane crash in Uberlingen, Switzerland, and the 2004 Asian tsunami.
Fanned by gale-force winds, the fire raced through seaside resorts of full-time homes and vacation residences popular with Athenians and tourists.
The large area the flames swept through further complicated the process of identifying victims. Officials said there was no way of knowing how many people were there at the time.
By Thursday afternoon, there was still no official number of missing.
Thanassis Moraitis went to the mortuary searching for his 90-year-old mother. He had tried to drive away with his mother, wife and 19-year-old son, but the fire was too fast.
Watch more
*   * Greek wildfires: for holidaymakers in Greece, what are the options?
They had to abandon the car and started running to the beach and into the water. Mr Moraitis suffered burns to his leg from the heat of the air. His mother didn't make it.
"In the sea, there was a rain of fire, there was smoke, there was a Force 12 wind," said the 53-year-old, adding that boats picked the family up after about three hours.
"I didn't even get a chance to say goodbye to my mother," Mr Moraitis said.
Fire department spokesperson Stavroula Malliri said the search for victims continued and would not end until every building had been thoroughly investigated.
Rescue crews had not been able to enter homes that had not been destroyed and were shut, she said.
Apart from the house-to-house searches, coast guard and volunteer divers were searching the waters off the coast and a nearby deserted island.
Watch more
   *      * Greece neighbours send planes in desperate attempt to halt deadly fire
Hundreds of volunteers lined up at the Rafina town hall to offer whatever help might be needed.
During the fire, hundreds fled to nearby beaches, with many swimming out to sea to escape the ferocious flames and choking smoke.
Dozens of people spent hours at sea before being picked up by coast guard vessels, fishing boats and a passing ferry. Several of the dead were people who drowned.
The worse affected area was the seaside community of Mati, where the majority of victims were found, including 26 people found huddled together, many embracing.
Arriving at the mortuary with her son, Maria Saridou was hoping her 55-year old sister, Eleni, was not among the victims.
She had gone swimming with a friend of hers in Mati, Saridou said, but the two became separated in the chaos of the fire. She had not heard from her since.
Read more


      * Heat-related deaths to treble unless government takes action, MPs warn
"We found her car, it wasn't burnt, nor was the house," said 60-year-old Ms Saridou.
"It's just that we can't find her. ... I believe she's alive. Where she went, nobody knows where she went."
The speed with which the flames spread took many by surprise. The narrow streets of Mati, an area built up with no town planning, quickly became clogged with parked and abandoned cars as people tried to flee, hampering access by firefighting trucks and blocking escape routes.
One Belgian national and one Irish national were among those confirmed dead.
Some of the casualties are believed to have tried to make it to the shore through narrow pathways, but lost their way in the thick smoke or had their paths blocked by the swift-moving blaze.
Even those on beaches were not safe, as flames burned trees and vegetation at the water's edge, while flaming pine cones rained downward, survivors have said.
Recriminations about the apparent lack of an evacuation plan and what many perceived to have been a slow response has mounted, with survivors saying they had been abandoned to do whatever they could to save themselves alone.
Firefighting and rescue efforts, particularly from the air and the sea, were hampered by gale force winds and rough seas.
When the Rafina fire broke out, crews were also engaged in fighting a massive fire west of Athens that had broken out hours earlier and also burnt homes.
But survivors have accused authorities of failing to adequately prepare and for not evacuating the area, as well as not responding fast enough.
Defence minister Panos Kammenos visited Mati on Thursday morning and was heckled by distraught men and women, who accused authorities of not doing enough in the initial hours of the fire.
"People died for nothing!" one woman sobbed at the minister.
Local resident Giannis Kardiakos, who said he stayed in the area until midnight, said efforts to tackle the blaze and to rescue those who had fled to the beaches started too late.
"There was no protection, there was nothing! ... I'm saying things as they were," he said, as Mr Kammenos detailed what the military and firefighters had been doing to battle the fire.
"I'm not lying. We're not talking politically here," he added, before breaking down in tears.
Additional reporting by agencies.
A "very intelligent" public schoolboy who "wanted to kill somebody" by throwing firebombs on to a motorway has been jailed for four-and-a-half years.
Nicholas Elger was sentenced at Winchester Crown Court for two arson charges for the two attacks on the M3 in September 2017.
The second incident caused the motorway to be closed at Winchester for 11 hours leading to major delays and causing £40m damage to the economy.
The 17-year-old was also sentenced for eight burglary and two blackmail charges against top public school Winchester College, which he attended as a boarder, and two charges of theft from a supermarket.
Judge Keith Cutler sentenced Elger to the prison term with an extended licence of four-and-a-half years.
Sentencing Elger, who wore a suit and tie in court, Judge Cutler told him: "I consider you are a dangerous offender.
"There is a significant risk to members of the public of serious harm from you in the future."
Describing the defendant, the judge added: "He's very intelligent, possibly the most able chemist the college has produced in recent years.
"He's a very bright boy and for some reason he takes to burgling the school, blackmailing the headteacher and making incendiary devices and throwing them off motorway bridges."
Judge Cutler said that Elger had written in a diary in hospital stating he wanted to kill patients and staff by "strangling and jumping on heads" and had also heard a voice telling him to kill his doctor.
The judge previously lifted the defendant's right to anonymity given to minors because of the public interest in the serious offences.
The burglary and blackmail offences cost Winchester College £52,000 in stolen items and damage and the defendant twice demanded payment of £10,000 in the online currency bitcoin for him to stop carrying out further break-ins.
Tessa Hingston, prosecuting, said he was caught because of a "schoolboy error" by sending a typed blackmail letter but in a handwritten envelope which enabled staff to recognise his distinctive handwriting.
Miss Hingston said that Elger, who has previously been remanded under psychiatric care, had told medical staff that he intended to kill someone in the motorway arson attacks.
She added he told staff: "I do not regret the incident, I regret not doing them differently and not succeeding in killing."
Miss Hingston said that after the second firebomb attack "the M3 was closed for some 11 hours and caused massive inconvenience to the public and an estimated cost to the economy of £40 million."
A wildfire which has burned on Saddleworth Moor for more than a week was started deliberately, detectives believe.
Greater Manchester Police said it was investigating the blaze as arson after witnesses reported seeing people lighting a bonfire on the Pennines moorland 10 days ago.
The force said it was treating the fire with “the utmost seriousness”.
Hundreds of firefighters and soldiers have been working around the clock to tackle the sprawling blaze, which first broke out on 24 June. The fire has caused families to evacuate their homes and schools to close.
Crews now have the blaze under control but it continues to burn in pockets across a seven-mile area of the Peak District, east of Manchester.
Fire chiefs have warned the flames could burn for weeks with no rain forecast.
“The scale of this fire is exceptional and we are treating it with the utmost seriousness,” said Chief Superintendent Neil Evans, the territorial policing commander for Tameside. 
Police said they were treating the fire as arson ”following information from local witnesses and initial inquiries”.
“That said, we are under no illusion that solid evidence as to where the fire started, and what was the cause, will not be easy to establish,” added Chief Superintendent Evans. 
“The areas we have been able to look at include dusty ash, burnt peat and grass and, because of this, our work with the fire service will be painstaking. 
“We recognise the incredible support that the emergency services have received and we now hope that the local community can help us further by getting in touch with any information that could help our investigation.”
Specialist investigators are focusing on moorland near Stalybridge, where witnesses reported seeing people lighting a bonfire at 7.30pm on 24 June.
Less than 50 minutes later, fire crews were called to a blaze close to Buckton Vale in Tameside.
Around 40 homes were evacuated in the village of Carrbrook as the fire spread on Tuesday amid dry, hot weather. Several local schools also shut after authorities declared a “major incident”.
More than than 100 troops and an RAF Chinook helicopter have been deployed to tackle the blaze, which took hold during the hottest week of the year.
Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue said rain was needed to help extinguish the flames.
But assistant chief fire officer Tony Hunter said: “We have not seen an indication of any rain coming within the next couple of days, stroke weeks, so we can see this being prolonged for days, if not weeks.”
Interim chief fire officer Dawn Docx said on Wednesday: “Specialist fire investigation officers at Greater Manchester Fire and Rescue Service are working closely with Greater Manchester Police to investigate the suspected arson in the moorlands in Tameside.
“Investigations are currently ongoing with a multi-agency approach to find the source of the ignition. There is an area of interest that specialist officers are inspecting.
“Firefighters are working in extremely difficult and challenging circumstances in Tameside and I can’t praise crews enough – they’ve done a fantastic job and are continuing to work hard to put out the multiple fires across the moorlands.
“I would like to urge the public to be really careful with barbecues, discarded cigarettes and glass bottles in the countryside, fires in the moorlands can spread rapidly so it’s important that we take extra care.”
Authorities in Lancashire said earlier this week that arsonists had been spotted trying to start new blazes close to an area of moorland where another large wildfire has been burning for days.
A police helicopter is understood to have seen a group of people attempting to light fires at a grassland called Healey Nab, just four miles away the blaze in Winter Hill.
Tony Crook, of Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service, described the incident as “absolutely heart-breaking and unbelievable”.
Lancashire Fire and Rescue Service said 20 crews were at Winter Hill on Wednesday as they continue to tackle smouldering areas.
A 22-year-old man arrested by Lancashire Police on suspicion of starting one of the Winter Hill fires has been released under investigation.
Fire Brigades Union general secretary Matt Wrack said: “Those who start fires on purpose should feel the full force of the law.
“The people who started the moorlands fires are responsible for a catastrophe that has endangered an enormous number of people. People are having to evacuate their homes, livestock has been lost and natural beauty spots have been ravaged. Resources have been sent from fire and rescue services all across the country.”
Anyone with any information can contact police on 101 or by calling Crimestoppers anonymously on 0800 555 111.
Two men and a woman have been jailed for a minimum of 98 years for killing four children by petrol bombing their family home over a petty feud.
The young victims were sleeping in the house in Walkden, Salford, when the attackers smashed a kitchen window and threw the missiles inside.
One of the bottles exploded on a staircase trapping the children upstairs as the flames spread in seconds.
Seven-year-old Lacie Pearson, her brother Brandon, eight, and older sister 15-year-old Demi were killed in the blaze on 11 December.
victims’ 17-year-old brother Kyle, who escaped the fire with a friend.
CCTV footage showed both men outside the home seconds before showing two flashes from the petrol bombs.
The pair denied murder and a defence barrister told Manchester Crown Court they were “too stupid to see the likely consequences” of throwing petrol bombs at the house.
But after more than three days of deliberations, a jury convicted them both of murder.
They also convicted Bolland’s 20-year-old girlfriend, Courtney Brierley, for manslaughter for helping to make the petrol bombs and driving with them to the attack.
Bolland was ordered to serve a minimum of 40 years in four life sentences and Worrall was handed a minimum tariff of 37 years. Brierley was sentenced to 21 years imprisonment.
​Worrall and Brierley broke down in tears as the verdicts were read out in court, while Bolland blinked and looked down to the floor. 
The court heard Bolland and Kyle had been friends until the murderer’s Ford Focus was set on fire a fortnight before the attack, an incident he blamed on the teenager.
Bolland demanded £500 and sent harassing text messages, before both sides launched attacks, breaking windows at each other’s homes. Bolland then threatened to firebomb the Pearsons’ house, the court heard. 
Ms Pearson called police on 26 November over the threat and the fire service fitted a letter box cover to their property.
She stated her willingness to give evidence in court but an “apparent misunderstanding” meant officers took no action against Bolland and he returned to the Pearsons’ home days later to taunt them.
Ms Pearson called police again and asked for a restraining order, but two days before her children were killed her bin was set on fire and the word “grass” was spray painted on the house.
Four hours before the fire, Bolland and Worrall attacked the property again, the court was told, before Bolland shouted: “Watch, all your family’s getting it, they’re all gonna die.”
The court heard the pair armed themselves with an axe and made a friend drive them to buy petrol from a nearby garage, pouring it into empty alcohol bottles and stuffing them with tissue.
At the same time, police visited Ms Pearson to take a statement, with an officer checking on the sleeping children, but they left and the arson attack was launched shortly before 5am.
The fire spread so quickly that smoke alarms were melted before they could sound, leaving the family with no chance of escape.
The court heard Ms Pearson was heard screaming “not my kids” and managed to dial 999 before being overcome by heat and smoke that left her in a temporary coma.
Detective Chief Inspector Lewis Hughes said she remained in hospital and “will be for some time to come”.
“This is one of the most heartbreaking cases I have ever dealt with,” he added. “I am glad that the sentences these three have received today reflect their atrocious acts, but nothing can change what has happened and nothing can bring back the children. 
“Understandably the children’s family will still have questions which we will continue to try and answer.”
Ms Pearson had called police on at least five occasions in just two weeks, each time naming Bolland – who lived just 300 yards away – as a threat. 
The mother saw at least six different officers who took statements and filled in risk referral forms, while the fire service carried out two “safe and well” visits. The family social worker was informed and Ms Pearson had asked to be moved to another house.
A serious case review is being conducted by Salford City Council, and the Independent Office for Police Conduct is probing Greater Manchester Police’s handling of the case.
Bolland, who had been drinking and snorting cocaine on the night of the attack, was already well known to police for a history of violence against women and threats to “burn” other enemies.
The unemployed killer was known for stalking around Walkden with his pit bull-type dog, often carrying a large machete, and had two convictions of battery against women.
His girlfriend, who also has a string of convictions for threatening behaviour, street robbery and battery, told the court he would beat her, lock her in their bedroom, broke her phone and deleted her social media accounts.
Bolland tried to use Brierley as an alibi after his arrest, writing to her from prison to declare his love and ask her to back up his claim that he thought the house was empty. She did not reply.
Worrall did not know the Pearson family and claimed he only allowed himself to be “dragged along” with the attack because he thought they were only going to set fire to bins.  
Bolland was also convicted of three counts of attempted murder, and Worrall was convicted of three counts of attempting to cause grievous bodily harm. 
The children’s grandmother, Sandra Lever, described the victims as “lovely, quiet children” who already had plans for their adult lives.
Demi wanted to study at sixth-form college, while Brandon liked architecture and dreamed of building a house for his mum.
“Lacie was always dancing, Lia was still a baby, she just used to copy Lacie,” Ms Lever said.
“I don’t know who to blame really. I’d say all of them – the police, social services, the council – because they were all involved, they all knew about it and they all done nothing about it.”
A Winnipeg man who was charged with aggravated assault in a Nov. 21 incident on Portage Avenue has been re-arrested with charges upgraded to manslaughter after the victim died from her injuries.
Calvin Oliver Harper, 50, remains in custody at the Winnipeg Remand Centre and now faces manslaughter charges in the death of Annie Little.
Police said Little, 53, was taken to hospital in the early hours of Nov. 21 in critical condition, suffering from severe upper-body injuries. She died Nov. 23.
Edward Kyle Roberts pleaded guilty to two counts of manslaughter on Monday in connection with the two-year-old stabbing deaths of a man and woman in Edmonton.
He was originally charged with first-degree murder in the death of the elderly couple.
Roberts was 30 years old in September 2016 when he broke into the home of Pedro Avalos and stole a steak knife.
According to an agreed statement of facts, a neighbour saw him acting suspiciously and called police.
Roberts continued wandering the neighbourhood and walked a few doors down before breaking into another home. That home belonged to 93-year-old Joao Nascimento and his 81-year-old wife, Maria Nascimento.
Another neighbour went to check on the Nascimentos and saw Roberts inside the house, wielding a knife. Roberts told the neighbour he bought the house and was the new owner but the man knew that was not the case. This information was relayed to police.
The Nascimentos had been married for 40 years. They were well-known by their neighbours and were avid gardeners.
According to an agreed statement of facts, Roberts broke down their front door and stabbed the couple repeatedly using the stolen steak knife.
When officers arrived, they contained the home and eventually used flashbangs to scare Roberts, allowing them to get inside.
On Monday, court heard that when Roberts was arrested by police, he was in a psychotic mental state after consuming “intoxicating substances,” however, the Crown and defence disagreed over whether mental illness also played a role in Roberts’ violent acts.
Witnesses in the area at the time described Roberts as being “whacked out and confused.” They said he was wearing shorts and a T-shirt when it was very cold outside. They also said his eyes were wide open and looking in all directions without focusing on anything.
During an interview with police, Roberts said he “stole the knife from the house to complete the mission of killing the old people.”
A sentencing hearing continues for the rest of the week and then will continue in the spring.
Roberts remains in custody.
A man has pleaded guilty to manslaughter in the 2016 death of Edmontonmixed martial arts fighter Ryan Jimmo.
Anthony Getschel was originally charged with second-degree murder in Jimmo’s death but pleaded guilty to the lesser charge in an Edmonton courtroom on Monday morning.
According to an agreed statement of facts, Getschel was out drinking at an Edmonton bar the night of June 26, 2016. He was involved in a fight at the bar, which ended with him being knocked to the ground.
Getschel and two others then left the bar and got into a 1998 GMC Sierra pickup truck.
At around 2 a.m., the truck was heading west on Whyte Avenue in the area of 101 Street when it came up behind a 2008 Jeep Patriot, driven by Jimmo.
Jimmo, who used to live in Edmonton, was visiting the city from Arizona with his girlfriend. The pair had just been to a movie and was out touring the city.
READ MORE: MMA fighter Ryan Jimmo remembered as a ‘gentle soul’
Feeling the truck behind him was driving aggressively, Jimmo turned into a nearby strip mall parking lot — but the truck followed.
Jimmo stopped his Jeep and got out of the vehicle. He approached the driver’s side of the truck, slapped the window and challenged Getschel and his male passenger to a fight.
A verbal exchange followed, but Getschel and his passengers stayed inside the truck. The verbal exchange continued as Jimmo walked back to his vehicle.
As he was standing beside the driver’s door of the Jeep, Jimmo heard shouting coming from the truck. He turned to look back at the truck as it came speeding over two concrete parking curbs. The truck then struck Jimmo “at speed,” according to the agreed statement of facts, “dragging him out in front of the Jeep.”
Knowing he had struck Jimmo, Getschel continued driving out of the parking lot and onto Whyte Avenue, nearly hitting another vehicle. The truck then drove east in the westbound lanes of Whyte Ave., eventually crossing the median into the correct lanes of traffic.
Witnesses in the parking lot called 911 and were able to wave down a police vehicle that was driving down Whyte Ave.
Jimmo was lying on the ground, conscious but badly injured. Police provided first aid until fire and EMS crews arrived at around 2:20 a.m. Jimmo was taken by ambulance to the University of Alberta Hospital, but on the way to the hospital he went into cardiac arrest.
While emergency crews attempted to resuscitate him, Jimmo was pronounced dead at the hospital.
READ MORE: Ex-UFC fighter identified as victim of deadly hit and run in Edmonton
Meanwhile, Getschel dropped off his passengers and hid the truck in Mill Creek Ravine. He took a taxi home, told a family member his truck had been stolen and went to bed.
The following morning, Getschel woke up and told the same family member what happened the previous night. He went and got his truck and took it to a registry office where he reported that his licence plate had been stolen in order to get a new plate.
The following Monday morning, Getschel left for a job in Fort McMurray. He returned to Edmonton later that night and at 1 a.m. Tuesday, Getschel turned himself in to police.
An autopsy revealed Jimmo, 34, died of multiple blunt force and crush injuries, consistent with being run over by a vehicle.
Jimmo was only in Edmonton for a couple of days before he was killed. During his MMA career, Jimmo made his sensational UFC debut (at UFC 149) in Calgary in July 2012. Fighting as a light heavyweight, he tied the record for the organization’s fastest knockout when he dispatched Anthony Perosh in just seven seconds.
Jimmo was also a champion in the Edmonton-based Maximum Fighting Championship and he appeared in the eighth season of The Ultimate Fighter.
Getschel, who was crying in the prisoner’s box Monday, will be back in court on Dec. 3 for a sentencing hearing.
In June 2016, Jordan Wagner was charged with accessory after the fact to murder in the incident.
Global News has put in an inquiry to see where the charge against Wagner stands and will update this story once the information is known. 
For the second time in three years, a Hamilton man has been found guilty of killing his girlfriend.
READ MORE: Husband sentenced to life in prison for July 2014 murder of his wife in Guelph
A jury has found Haiden Suarez Noa guilty of second-degree murder in the stabbing death of 36-year-old Tania Cowell.
In 2015, Suarez Noa was acquitted of second-degree murder in the case but was found guilty of manslaughter.
READ MORE: COMMENTARY: Another look at Toronto’s ‘record’ murder numbers
The 41-year-old man admitted to stabbing Cowell in their Stoney Creek apartment on March 9, 2013, while their five-month-old son slept on a couch, but Suarez Noa claimed he didn’t intend for her to die.
DR. NORA VOLKOW WAS decisive when a physician at the emergency room who was evaluating her for a foot fracture suggested she take prescription analgesics to ease the pain: "No thank you," she told the doctor.
"I'll manage the pain," Volkow says she told the physician during the December 2017 encounter. "The pain was not severe enough for me to take the risk. I managed the pain by avoiding putting pressure on the foot." Volkow, the director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse, had an uncle and grandfather who were both alcoholics, she says. That family history puts her at greater risk of developing a substance use disorder if she were to take powerful opioid painkillers, she says.
There's wide consensus among substance use disorder clinicians that genetics predisposes some people to alcoholism and addiction. Given that, if you have family members who have a problem with drugs or alcohol, you should do everything possible to protect yourself from developing substance use disorder as well, says Deni Carise, chief scientific officer at Recovery Centers of America. That's because research strongly suggests that there's a genetic component to substance misuse disorder, says Carise, who's based in Philadelphia. "The science is clear: (genetics) play a very real role in the development of alcohol or drug disorders," she says. "If you have any family members who currently have or have had alcohol or drug problems, you are likely to be at higher risk (for addiction). Additionally, some genes may make it more difficult for someone to quit once he or she starts using a drug."
[See: 11 Strategies for Staying Sober While Traveling.]
As with all genetic disorders, the closer the relationship, the higher the risk, says Dr. Bradford Bobrin, who is board-certified in psychiatry, addiction medicine and pain medicine, and is the medical director for addiction services at AtlantiCare in Atlantic City, New Jersey. AtlantiCare is the largest health care system in southeastern New Jersey. "However, any family member (who has substance use disorder), no matter the closeness, indicates a genetic risk, so uncles and cousins shouldn't be ignored," Bobrin says.


The stakes for avoiding substance use disorder – involving either illicit drugs or alcoholic beverages – have never been higher, considering the lethal opioid epidemic raging throughout the country and the even higher number of deaths linked to alcohol abuse. More than 72,000 people are estimated to have died of drug overdoses in the U.S. in 2017, according to preliminary statistics from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. More than 49,000 of those deaths – about 81 percent – involved opioids, which include illicit drugs like heroin and prescription medications like hydrocodone, morphine, codeine and fentanyl. Though it gets far less attention in the press, alcohol abuse continues to exact an even larger toll. About 88,000 people in the U.S. die annually from alcohol-related causes like drunk-driving accidents, liver disease, cancer and heart disease, according to the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.
While you can't do anything about your genetic background, you can take steps to safeguard your health if substance use disorder is part of your family history. Experts recommend these five strategies:
1. Research your family history. Ask your parents and other relatives whether alcoholism or addiction runs in your family, says Dr. Marvin Seppala, chief medical officer of the Minnesota-based Hazelden Betty Ford Foundation. Some people, particularly older individuals, may be reluctant to share such information. Let your relatives know you're trying to gather the information to safeguard your health and, if you're a parent, the well-being of your children. "Family history is the major risk factor associated with addiction," says Seppala, who is in his 43rd year in recovery from alcoholism and drug addiction.
[See: 14 Ways Alcohol Affects the Aging Process.]
2. Only drink at celebrations. Limiting your intake of alcohol to special occasions can help mitigate your risk of developing alcoholism, Bobrin says. While some health organizations say that nonrisky drinking equates to one drink per day for women and two for men, people who have a genetic predisposition for substance use disorder should consume less than that, Bobrin says. "Creating boundaries surrounding the amount and frequency of alcohol intake allows those with a family history of substance use disorder to take control of their lives and set limits that work for them," Bobrin says. "Of course, the best action is to not begin drinking alcohol at all."
3. Notify your health care providers about your family history. It's a good idea to notify your health care providers about your family history of substance use disorder, says Howard Samuels, owner and chief executive officer of The Hills Treatment Center, an alcohol and drug treatment facility in Los Angeles. Samuels has been in recovery from heroin addiction for more than 30 years. Your health care provider can suggest options to deal with pain other than potentially addicting opioids, he says. There will be times when such prescription drugs are necessary, like when you undergo surgery. If you are in recovery from substance use disorder, you should give the painkilling drugs to a trusted relative or friend to distribute to you, Samuels says. "If you don't have a personal history of addiction or alcoholism, I think that you are OK managing the pills yourself," Samuels says. "But you have to be aware that there’s a risk (of addiction) since it's already in your DNA. You have to tread very carefully."
4. If you're a parent, educate your kids about their potential genetic risks. If you have a history of addiction or alcoholism in your family, it's a good idea to inform your children, Seppala says. Letting your kids know about their genetic predisposition can help them make better, informed choices about whether to drink or try recreational drugs, he says. Around age 10 is a good time to have such a discussion, when kids are old enough to process the concept of genetic risks, Seppala says. Waiting to have such a discussion until the child is in high school may be too late, since many kids are exposed to alcohol and drugs in middle school. "Let your children know of the risks as you would with any potentially fatal disease," Seppala says.
[See: 4 Opioid Drugs Parents Should Have on Their Radar.]
5. Disclose your family history to a potential partner. You don't have to discuss a history of alcoholism or addiction in your family on a first, second or even third date, says Anita Gadhia-Smith, a psychotherapist who practices in the District of Columbia and suburban Maryland, and the author of "From Addiction to Recovery: A Therapist's Personal Journey." While you don't need to bring up the subject in the early dating phase, it's probably a good idea to talk about your family's history with substance use disorder if your relationship becomes serious. "To withhold such important information too long could become damaging to an intimate relationship and prevent the formation of trust," Gadhia-Smith says. "If you have entered into a new romantic relationship and you know that it is getting serious, share your history with your partner. Your partner deserves to know who you really are, and will accept you if you are truly a fit with one another."


SOCIAL, EDUCATIONAL AND medical barriers need to be lowered in order to address the multiple facets of the opioid epidemic, leaders from multiple industries said during the closing keynote discussion of the 2018 Healthcare of Tomorrow conference.
"You don't resolve what you don't understand. Let's get the data, let's analyze, let's understand what the current state of the epidemic is," Dr. Marcelo Bigal, chief medical officer for Purdue Pharma, told the crowd in the nation's capital on Friday. "Let's get to the facts and align in a way that serves the public."
Bigal joined Dr. Joseph Hsu, vice chair for quality of Atrium Health's Musculoskeletal Institute; Dr. Laura Kehoe, medical director of Massachusetts General Hospital's substance use disorder bridge clinic; and John "Jack" Donahue, chief of strategic initiatives for New York City's police department to discuss the opioid epidemic. Brian Kelly, editor and chief content officer at U.S. News, moderated the discussion.
On average, 115 Americans die each day from an opioid overdose, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In New York City, Donahue said, they have seen five times as many deaths from opioid overdoses as lives lost to murder. He said the crisis has inspired his police department to change its view of the epidemic from a crackdown on drug use to a public safety concern.
"It's still lives that are being lost and lives that are being destroyed, and it's not just those who have become addicted, it's those families," Donahue said. "The idea is to prevent crime and save lives."
Working to increase conversations between public safety professionals like Donahue and public health professionals can help to get more people into treatment, Kehoe said. Further, providing immediate individualized care and continuing to keep patients engaged in their addiction treatment – even if they relapse – is key to keeping them in recovery.
"There's this misconception amongst many of us that if people are ready and willing (to seek treatment) ... they have to be ready and willing to totally stop, and we do this with no other illness in medicine," Kehoe said. "When you think about people with addiction, they have to often change their support groups. If they are living on the streets, there's often a lot of open air drug use around them that abounds. Many people stay with people where there is drug use; they may have criminal justice involvement – multiple triggers."
"So, the goal is to lower those barriers to care, to engage them and get them treated," she said. "This illness has a higher remission rate than diabetes, than hypertension, than other chronic illnesses if they get the right treatment."
On the prevention side, Hsu of Atrium Health says one of the biggest challenges is having appropriate alternative pain management options, such as physical therapy or chirotherapy, accessible to patients – and covered by insurance.
"We're the only country in the world where the primary treatment for a nonoperative, minor fracture is an opiate therapy," Hsu said. "We need to be very intentional about some of these other non-pharmaceutical strategies for comfort and alleviation of pain."
But for chronic pain patients who are already dependent on prescription drugs, Hsu says, prescription limits and cutbacks by physicians are creating another systemic problem.


"As states have regulated opiate use, clinicians are afraid to even prescribe opiates … primary care physicians are no longer treating chronic pain, and so we're creating opiate orphans," Hsu said. If they don't have access to care, he added, "then those are people that unfortunately will transition to injection drug use."
Bigal agrees.
"Pain matters, addiction matters, and I believe that if we don't understand this crisis with the complexity it needs, we're going to keep perpetuating a problem that needs to stop," he says.
Despite all the barriers that remain, the panelists said they are positive that the country is on the right path to solving the opioid problem.
"We have to be optimistic," said Donahue of the New York City Police. "We have to be because we know we can change our communities."
"We have the data we need, we have the urgency and we have the attention," Bigal said. "I think we are where we should be, and I am optimistic that we actually can do something pending our willingness to go deep."
BETHLEHEM, Pa. (AP) — Broughal Middle School Principal Rick Amato recently encountered a student wearing his jacket inside the school building.
That's a violation of the school rules. Three years ago, Amato might have taken a hard line with the boy, demanding he take the coat off.
But that was before Amato knew what trauma – exposure to abuse, neglect, family dysfunction, drug abuse or mental health issues – does to a child's brain. Now, Amato knows that when a child experiences trauma it causes the child's stress hormones to rise, literally turning off the part of the brain that facilitates learning.
This knowledge has led to a school-wide culture transformation at the Bethlehem school as Broughal became the first school in the region to integrate trauma-informed practices.
"Sometimes in schools when students are exhibiting behavior problems we look at the behavior, not what is causing the behavior, and we tend to take it personally," Amato said.
Located in South Bethlehem steps off of Lehigh University's campus, Broughal is one of Bethlehem's lowest-performing, poorest and most diverse schools; 92 percent of children are economically disadvantaged and 87 percent are minorities, according to state data.
There's an army of community supports trying to lift the students out of poverty and close the achievement gap. It is a United Way of the Greater Lehigh Valley community school, which includes a partnership with Just Born Inc. Lehigh students work as tutors and there's a health clinic.
But none of that was making a dent in the academic performance or student behavior, said Beth Tomlinson, director of education for the United Way.
"We really dug deep and realized it was really a lack of trauma awareness in the staff that was at the root cause of our academic indicators not moving," she said.
The United Way offered trauma training that explained when a student is in survival mode from stressors his or her brain is not primed for learning. Something clicked for the staff and it's manifesting results.
"Kids that live in this constant, chaotic, hurtful, frightening environment, they are stuck in that survival mode, so those stress hormones are going all the time," Tomlinson said. "That literally changes the way the brain develops."
Two years later, the number of failing students has dropped from 12 percent to 7 percent and the number of office discipline referrals plummeted by 39 percent. The average student GPA rose from 2.17 to 2.51 and out-of-school suspensions dropped by nearly 17 percent.
What Does a Trauma-Informed School Look Like?
It all starts with a corner in every Broughal classroom known as the peace corner, a quiet space where students who are struggling can go for 10 minutes to calm down and reset when they get into the yellow zone, Amato explained.
Staff and students alike commonly shout out numbers meant to gauge their mental health: "I'm a three," means it is a good day. I'm calm and ready to learn. But if you're a six, you might need to go visit the peace corner and reset before you're ready to learn.
"For too many of our kids, they are sitting in the classroom, but their brains are stuck in survival mode, which turns off the learning brain," Tomlinson said. "If I am ready to defend myself at any time, I am not focusing on the ABCs and 123s. Survival trumps learning."
If a student gets into the red zone -- that's a score of 7 to 10 -- or they're dealing with major upheaval at home, Broughal has a classroom dedicated to mindfulness, manned by a staff member with special training.
If a student shows up in the morning and reports a major trauma over the weekend, like a parent getting incarcerated, they will start and perhaps spend their day in that class, Amato said
On Friday afternoon, the Just Born Peeps Chick mascot delivered plush Peeps to all 60 Broughal classroom's peace corners to use as soothing objects.
Research shows that someone experiencing trauma is six times as likely to experience behavior problems and 2.6 times more likely to fail a grade, said Meg Dowd, Just Born corporate communications specialist. In the workforce, if a co-worker experiences a traumatic event, you'd send them home or suggest they take the day off, but we don't do the same for our children, she said.
"We need to support (our children) and let them know we care about them," Dowd said. "Hopefully, when they look at things like this Peep they know people care about them."
It Is Growing In Popularity
While the Bethlehem Area School District is the first in the Valley to embrace this trauma-informed approach, districts across the region are exploring it, Tomlinson said.
Allentown has gone through training and Easton is providing training for teachers in its neediest schools. But it is not just the urban schools, East Penn, Parkland and several other suburban school districts are exploring it as well, Tomlinson said.
"We began this in our urban school districts but our suburban school districts see the same needs, maybe not to the same percentage, but they are also seeing students struggle and they don't feel equipped to really accurately address those issues."
Research has shown two out of three adults have been exposed to childhood trauma; one in 8 have toxic stress exposure that affects long-term brain development and physical health, Tomlinson said, the study looked at a largely white, fully-employed population.
When the research was replicated in Philadelphia communities, which more accurately reflect the Lehigh Valley's high poverty neighborhoods, the figures jumped to 80 percent of adults experiencing childhood trauma and 37 percent exposed to toxic stress levels, Tomlinson said.
All children, but especially those who have experienced trauma, need to feel safe, loved and supported before they can learn, Tomlinson. They thrive in a respectful, nurturing environment.
Broughal staff are committed to being stable, caring adult figures in their students' lives.
"A lot of our kids come from very great homes," Amato said. "Sometimes the environment around them also causes that trauma too, even with great parents."
Supporting students and allowing them to take a timeout from learning results in children spending more time in the classroom engaged, Amato said.
"We need to keep a safe learning environment to keep the learning brain on so they can take part in the content," he said.
Teachers and students are connecting on a new level.
"We are understanding the stories of our kids because we are allowing them the opportunity to share," Amato said. "It is bringing the human side to education."
Both the staff and students have gone through their own trauma screenings, so they know what their own Adverse Childhood Experience score is, bringing awareness to the table.
This allows the staff in the building to model regulating their own feelings and navigating tough emotions, Amato said.
Sidewalk prayers near shoot-up spots. Sunday sermons in the back of a bar. Pleas to struggling souls to surrender to God. Funerals for members of their flock who didn't make it.
Clergy members have become spiritual first responders in the opioid crisis, often leaving the pulpit to minister on the streets.
They can be reverends, rabbis, priests or pastors. Though their faiths differ, they invariably approach people with addiction as equals. No Bible-thumping, no blaming. Quite a few are in recovery themselves.
Despite some signs of a slowdown, the nation's all-time deadliest drug overdose epidemic endures. Opioids were involved in most of the deaths, killing nearly 48,000 people last year.
A spiritual element to recovery is familiar to people who have worked 12-step programs, with their references to an undefined higher power. Scientific studies have found evidence that religious faith can help substance abusers with their recovery.
Working with addicted people means trips to hospital rooms and fresh graves. But there are flashes of light in the darkness, too.
Three dispatches from the front lines:
A Church for Imperfect People
Nine minutes into his sermon, Pastor Brad Hill made a confession.
"I gotta be honest. I ask myself a lot of the times, 'God, why did you allow me to be an addict?" Hill says from the pulpit of his Grace Downtown Church. "Why are my friends dying of an overdose? ... I gotta ask God, 'Why, God, do you allow this?'"
Hill hears those questions a lot.
The church Hill started in the back of a Winchester, Virginia, bar moved this year to a space that can accommodate hundreds, many trying to turn the page on their addictions. Six and a half years in recovery, Hill calls it a totally judgment-free zone, "a church for imperfect people."
Hill has a salty beard, smiling eyes and booming voice to sermonize about the suffering he sees so often in the Shenandoah Valley. His phone lights up constantly with messages from struggling people and their loved ones. One recent text read: "Do those who commit suicide still go to heaven?"
Too often, Hill speaks at funerals for overdose victims, three in the past three months alone. He honors the dead while telling survivors, "You don't have to be like this person. There is a way out."
A funeral in September for a 38-year-old married father of four was especially hard on Hill. They were friends, and Hill had been talking to him about his struggle just a week before he died. It was Hill who welcomed the man's grieving family to a Sunday service.
"They lost one of ..." Hill swallowed, clapped his hands together twice, and continued in a softer voice. "They lost one of my favorite people. So I just ask that we pray real quick for them, OK?"
Hill's own addiction to painkillers led to a prescription fraud conviction in 2007 and a yearlong jail sentence that cost him a thriving church in Virginia Beach.
About four years ago, he came to Winchester and started Sunday services in the backroom of a downtown bar called Brewbaker's for a handful of people struggling with addiction. They'd drop a sheet over the liquor bottles before services.
It grew by attracting people like Matthew Fanning, who met Hill at a Narcotics Anonymous meeting.
Hill would talk about spirituality, but Fanning wasn't ready to hear it until he relapsed into heroin addiction. Hill visited him in rehab in 2015, encouraged him and gave him Bible-based homework.
Fanning is now in recovery and a Grace Downtown regular.
"You don't have to come in your quote-unquote Sunday best," Fanning said. "You come as you are, whether you're struggling, or whether you don't believe, or whether you're just curious."
The nondenominational church moved this year to a nearby strip mall with room to seat 400.
While some churches merely welcome the homeless, Grace Downtown picks them up in a van. Other worshippers come from local rehabilitation centers. Hill estimates that more than half who show up on Sundays are in recovery or related to someone who is.
"I have folks that come in that just got high the night before," Hill says. "I've got folks that overdosed the night before. I've got folks who have lost everything."
Never Stop Getting Our Hands Dirty
Pastor Jamie Casey prays with addicted people all over New Bedford, Massachusetts. He joins hands with them in their living rooms days after overdoses, in hospital emergency rooms and on sidewalks in front of wind-beaten houses in this struggling city.
The 45-year-old associate pastor in a nondenominational church is part of a team of clergy from a variety of faiths who regularly crisscross town with police officers and counselors. Their goal is to get people into treatment and, if they will listen, to offer some spiritual advice.
"Surrender," Casey told Brian Peets, who stepped out from his makeshift shelter beneath a railroad track platform.
"I can't," Peets said.
"Surrender."
"I can't right now."
"Surrender," Casey repeated, alluding to his own addictions that started with alcohol and cocaine.
"For 20 years I fought and fought and fought against myself. Because you're your biggest enemy. You know that, right?" he told Peets. "So what ended up happening is that I ended up in a place that I lost almost everything. But then I had to surrender to this addiction, surrender to my circumstances, surrender to myself and then surrender to God."
New Bedford logged 56 opioid-related overdose deaths last year, a per-capita rate a third higher than nearby Boston. Police hope such outreach ride-alongs can get struggling people into treatment before the next setback.
The three-person teams cold-call homes where there have recently been overdoses to see if anyone wants help.
On a recent evening, Casey put on his shirt with "CHAPLAIN" on the back to ride with Officer Scott Carola and counselor Peter Lagasse around the city in an unmarked car.
Casey had a list of addresses of recent overdoses. But when they knocked on doors, most people either weren't home or weren't answering.
The trio was unfazed.
The person who ignores you today might embrace you tomorrow, said the Rev. David Lima, who heads the Inter-Church Council of Greater New Bedford and directs the program.
Only a small percentage will get treatment, but participating clergy contend that it's about more than numbers. Says Rabbi Raphael Kanter, quoting the Talmud, "if you save one life, it's as if you've saved the whole world."
They spotted James Sessine talking to friends on a busy corner outside a food market. The 29-year-old has struggled with addiction and recently has been living in a tent.
Sessine's friends scattered as the car stopped, but he stayed and listened to Casey's suggestion that he get a treatment slot.
Casey called a provider. Can they give him a time tomorrow? Yes.
Sessine got on the phone and promised he'll be ready the next morning, meanwhile, "I'm going to walk around all night, like I do every night."
Sessine ended the call and hugged Casey.
"I shoot heroin daily," Sessine explained a few minutes later, "and it's coming to the point where enough is enough."
Casey says his preaching, teaching and intervening is all part of his goal to "love people back to life."
"My best friend and I, we made a deal," Casey said, his voice catching. "He looked at me and he said, 'Promise me we'll never stop getting our hands dirty,' And I made that promise to him and God, because had people given up on me, I wouldn't be here."
They picked up Sessine the next morning.
Casey looked for Peets too, but could not find him.
Friars Flying the Jesus Flag
With his bushy beard and long gray robe cinched by a rope, the Rev. Giuseppe Siniscalchi would look at home illuminating manuscript in a monastery. But he and his fellow Franciscan friars are familiar figures on the sidewalks of Newburgh, New York.
They walk in pairs by row houses, empty storefronts and shoot-up spots in this Hudson River city. They offer people hot chocolate, iced tea or bagels along with their Roman Catholic blessings.
"When we approach the people on the street, whether they're addicted, whether they're even drunk, or whether they're high at the moment or they're a prostitute, whatever's going in in their life, we want to approach them first of all in love," Siniscalchi says.
On one afternoon walking with the Rev. Antonio Maria Diez de Medina, the pair greeted men on a street corner, a mom on her front steps and kids on scooters. Diez de Medina greeted some people in Spanish.
A dark-haired woman ran up to them from across the street and proudly told him about her recovery.
She acted calmly, different from when Siniscalchi saw her sitting restlessly in a parked car months ago. He offered to pray for her. The two friars laid a hand on her shoulders as they all bowed their heads on the sidewalk.
She closed her eyes so tightly her nose crinkled.
The friars are not specifically looking for people struggling with drugs, but they make a point of walking past some of the most troubled corners of Newburgh.
This once-grand city about an hour north of New York City has a poverty rate higher than that of the Bronx. For every fixed-up row house, there is another run down or abandoned. A hospital two blocks from the friary reported that it saved the lives of 205 overdose patients over a year's time.
"There been a few times where I've come across people with their little hypodermic needle kit ready to shoot up ... and you just say, 'Hi. How are you? How you doing,'" Siniscalchi says. "They kind of recognize or get a sense of who we are, and a conversation ensues."
The friars moved to an old church rectory here in 2016, establishing the St. Mary of the Assumption Friary. They take turns on the four-times-a-week walkabouts with Brother Peter Anthony Curtis.
In recent months, they started dispensing drinks from a metal cart they push down the streets. The rubber-wheeled cart sports a Jesus flag and a picture of Our Lady of Guadalupe, a resonant image in a city with a robust Hispanic population.
After two years, the sight of robed men with long beards chatting up people barely draws second glances. Quite a few people chat.
On one walk, a middle-aged bicyclist asked, "You guys Catholics or something?" He then had his silver crucifix blessed. A passing woman took a blue plastic crucifix that matched her clothes. At one point, Siniscalchi sat down next to a downcast woman, pulled out a crucifix and told her Jesus loves her.
A CANCER PATIENT MAKING a dream trip to New York had to postpone the vacation when she mistakenly marked herself as a terrorist on her visa application.
Mandi Stevenson, 29, of Scotland accidentally marked "yes" on the visa waiver form to the question "Do you seek to engage in or have you ever engaged in terrorist activities, espionage, sabotage or genocide?", the BBC reported. She only realized her error when her application to travel was rejected.
A visa waiver is an online form though the Electronic System for Travel Authorization that United Kingdom citizens can use to waive their need for a U.S. visa.
"At first I thought it was a bad dream and then I realized what I had done," Stevenson told radio show Mornings with Stephen Jardine.
She said she had first attempted to fill out the form on her tablet, but it crashed. The next day she tried again at work, saying she thought she "ticked 'no'" to the question.
"I believe I ticked 'no' and then when I have scrolled down to click confirm, I think it has nudged and moved. That's the story I'm sticking to," Stevenson told the radio show. "A lot of people have said 'how on earth could you do that?' but to me I've done it really easily."
Stevenson, who was diagnosed with terminal breast cancer in 2015, had to postpone her bucket-list trip to New York while she tried to sort out her mistake. She visited the U.S. embassy in London to explain that she was not a threat. However, the process was not simple and Stevenson had to undergo several intense interviews.
Eventually, she was granted a full visa, but the embassy warned it could not guarantee that it would arrive in time for her vacation, planned with her boyfriend. Authorities advised her to rebook her flights and rearrange her trip, which cost her $1,045, in addition to spending more than $400 to travel to London for an embassy appointment, according to BBC.
"I live in 12-weekly cycles because I get scanned every 12 weeks. I book my holidays in very specific times and this New York trip was going to be before I get another set of scan results, so I was really looking forward to it," Stevenson said. "I thought because it was a genuine error it would be quite an easy fix, but I was quite wrong."
Now sorted out, Stevenson is "happy again" and "keen to get going."
WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The State Department warned on Wednesday that Islamic State, al Qaeda and its affiliates have adapted by dispersing and becoming less vulnerable to military action after the United States and its partners made "major strides" against the armed Islamist groups last year.
In an annual report on the U.S. anti-terrorism fight worldwide, the State Department said militant attacks decreased globally in 2017 by 23 percent from 2016, with a 27 percent reduction in fatalities.
The drops were due mostly to "dramatically" reduced extremist attacks in Iraq, said Nathan Sales, the U.S. counter-terrorism coordinator, whose office produced the congressionally mandated report.
U.S.-backed forces and Iraqi militias liberated nearly all of the territory that Islamic State, also known as ISIS, once controlled in Iraq and Syria, including the major Iraqi city of Mosul.
The United States and its partners also stepped up pressure on al Qaeda to prevent its resurgence, it said.
Islamic State, al Qaeda and their affiliates, however, "have proven to be resilient, determined and adaptable, and they have adjusted to heightened counterterrorism pressure in Iraq, Syria, Afghanistan, Libya, Somalia, Yemen and elsewhere," the report said.
The groups "have become more dispersed and clandestine," used the Internet to inspire attacks by their followers, and as a result, "have made themselves less susceptible to conventional military action," it continued.
[MORE: 9 places in the world the U.S. warns not to travel to.]
Militant groups retain "both the capability and the intent to strike the United States and its allies," Sales told reporters.
The report said Iran remained "the world's largest state sponsor of terrorism" in 2017, using its elite Islamic Revolutionary Guard Corps and Lebanese Hezbollah, the Shi'ite Muslim militia movement, to undertake "terrorist-related and destabilizing activities.
POLICE IN MALAYSIA ARE searching for a missing industrial device containing radioactive material that authorities fear could be used to make a dirty bomb.
The device, which contained the radioactive isotope Iridium 192, went missing earlier this month from the back of a pick-up truck while it was being transported near Malaysia's capital, Kuala Lumpur, the New Straits Times reported.
The device belongs to a company that provides tests, calibrations and inspections to oil and gas companies, power plants and companies in transportation and manufacturing. Sources told the Times that two technicians with the company loaded the device onto their Nissan Navara in Seremban, Malaysia, to complete a job.
They finished that job around 2 a.m. local time and began their trip back to the company's office in Shah Alam. However, when the employees arrived at the office approximately an hour later, they realized the device was missing.
According to the news report, the employees told investigators they did not stop during their drive and that when they arrived at their office in Shah Alam, the truck's tailgate had been lowered and that the device could have fallen out. Malaysia's Criminal Investigation Department found no evidence that the tailgate had been forced open and determined it had not opened on its own.
In an attempt to find the device, the two employees retraced their steps. Authorities searched along the route as well. They then arrested the employees but later released them after finding no evidence to link them to the missing device.
The device, which weighs about 50 pounds, is worth a little more than $18,000. Authorities are worried that the radioactive device could fall into the wrong hands. A dirty bomb is a non-nuclear device which uses explosives to disperse radioactive material over a wide area.
According to the New Straits Times report, Iridium 192 is one of the most-stolen commercial radioactive isotopes used to make dirty bombs. The isotope is not harmful if it is kept in a lead casing.
Deputy Home Minister Datuk Azis Jamman told The Star Online that "everything is under control" and there is "nothing to be worried about at this moment."


 HOLLYWOOD loves cops who are wrenched out of context -- stripped of their badges, abandoned by comrades, forced to make a stand on someone else's turf. Think of Gary Cooper's shunned marshal in "High Noon," or Eddie Murphy's Detroit policeman transplanted in "Beverly Hills Cop," or more recently the ill-matched Mexican and U.S. detectives in the television series "The Bridge," people who are forced to work in each other's jurisdictions after a body is found along the border.
Viewed in this light, the Republic of Ireland'sdecision to recruit its next police commissioner from Northern Ireland looks somewhat cinematic.
When Drew Harris takes over in September he will be the first ever commissioner of the Garda Síochána, or Civic Guards, from outside the country. Stirring the political pot further: As the current deputy chief constable of the Police Service of Northern Ireland, the 53-year-old Harris is also a sworn subject and servant of the British crown, which the Republic of Ireland rejected a century ago.
Ireland has often been described, crudely but not unfairly, as an island dominated by two breeds and two creeds, and Harris, an Ulster Presbyterian of British settler stock, was born on the other side of an at-times bitter sectarian divide from the Irish Roman Catholics who form a large majority in the Republic.
Harris faces the urgent task of reforming the Garda Síochána – a force widely regarded as in crisis following years of poor morale, underfunding, and inadequate training and management. And as he comes through the gates of the Garda Depot in Dublin's Phoenix Park he will bring with him a dramatic backstory.
During the Northern Ireland Troubles of 1968 to 1998, in which mainly Catholic supporters of a united Ireland sought to violently tear Northern Ireland away from the United Kingdom, Harris's father was murdered by a car bomb planted by the Irish Republican Army. As a superintendent in the Royal Ulster Constabulary, the predecessor to the Police Service of Northern Ireland, Alwyn Harris was regarded as a "legitimate target" by nationalists seeking a united Ireland.
A photograph from the funeral shows Drew Harris, then 23 and a recent recruit to the RUC, carrying his father's coffin, which is draped in the Union Jack. Next month he will be sworn in to serve the Irish republic under the Irish tricolor, the flag not only of the legal Dublin government but also of the republican bombers who murdered his father.
The task he now faces would be daunting for anyone. Secretive, inward-looking, and resistant to oversight or change, the 13,000-strong Garda Síochána has in recent years become mired in a series of scandals involving – among other things – poor discipline, collusion by some officers with republican terrorists, fabrication of evidence, misuse of citizens' personal data, the wrongful dropping of penalties for traffic offences, and the nationwide fabrication of almost 2 million alcohol breath tests in order to meet quotas for random traffic stops.
A long-running scandal over the alleged mistreatment of internal whistleblowers has in the past four years caused the resignation of two ministers for justice, two Garda commissioners, and the previous prime minister, Enda Kenny.
To end this slide, the government of the present Taoiseach (prime minister) Leo Varadkar decided to seek outside applications for the vacant commissioner's post.
Harris was chosen because of his experience helping transform the old Royal Ulster Constabulary into the modern Police Service of Northern Ireland, says Professor Edward Burke of the University of Nottingham, who researches security and intelligence matters in Britain and Ireland.
Dominated by Protestants loyal to the British crown, the armed RUC was tasked with policing the Troubles and became largely alienated from Northern Ireland's large Roman Catholic minority. Following the Good Friday Agreement of 1998, which in effect ended the Troubles, the RUC was absorbed into the modernized PSNI, which actively recruited Catholics to improve the sectarian balance in its ranks.
"Drew Harris comes from an RUC background, which some will hold against him, but he helped push through the reforms against a great deal of internal resistance," Burke says. "He now presides over what I view as the most effective police force in the U.K., despite a very difficult situation that they have in Northern Ireland because of sectarian divisions and the history of the Troubles."
It remains to be seen whether Harris's new subordinates will accept their transplanted boss, but the professional bodies representing rank-and-file and more senior Gardai both issued statements guardedly welcoming his appointment.
Burke believes there is a hunger within the force, particularly at the operational level, for the kind of reforms that the technocratic Harris - who has a degree in criminology from Cambridge and an FBI leadership qualification - is expected to implement.
"You actually see younger Gardaí now paying for courses out of their own pocket in areas like cyber security and criminal investigation, pushing for more skills to do their job," Burke says. "A reform program offering to help develop skills would be very popular, and I think Harris can win support by improvements like that."
Despite their historical differences, the Garda Síochána and Harris's present force have more in common than meets the eye, adds Professor Eunan O'Halpin, who lectures in modern Irish history at Trinity College Dublin and writes on security matters.
"The police forces on either side of the border both ultimately descend from the old Royal Irish Constabulary," O'Halpin says. "They are (the) same kind of cops, in that they both have political antennae in a way that British police forces don't. They know who people are, and when to be hard and when to be soft. I think that will help Harris with his new rank and file."
Harris is already said to have good relations with many senior Gardai due to his former role as head of the PSNI's crime operations department, in which he liaised with the Gardaí on cross-border intelligence and policing.
Elements of his past will, however, remain problematic. The Garda Síochána is responsible not only for civilian policing but also for most of the Republic of Ireland's intelligence and counterintelligence functions. Not only is Harris a citizen of another state (although like all people from Northern Ireland he is also entitled under Irish law to Irish citizenship, and is reported to have now applied for an Irish passport), but as head of crime operations in the PSNI he worked closely with the U.K.'s MI5 – a foreign intelligence service. It is still not known how, or whether, the Irish government will address this potential conflict of loyalties.
Sectarianism is no longer a strong force in the Republic of Ireland (unlike the tense and divided North), but Harris's former service with the RUC – still vilified by hardline republicans – led the county council in Donegal to pass a motion calling for his appointment to be reversed.
The mainstream Irish Republican Army, which murdered his father in 1989, may have officially disbanded under the Good Friday Agreement, but its political wing, Sinn Fein, is now a major legal political force in both parts of the island. Harris angered many within the movement when he sanctioned the arrest of then Sinn Fein president Gerry Adams in 2014 for questioning about the 1972 abduction and murder of Jean McConville, a widowed Belfast mother of 10 (Adams was released without charge).
Relatives of some victims of the Troubles accuse Harris of suppressing investigation into a notorious Protestant murder group, the so-called Glenanne Gang, which is alleged to have colluded with British army intelligence and the RUC special branch in sectarian attacks that claimed dozens of lives.
Within the Garda itself, there were objections to evidence that Harris gave in 2012 to an official inquiry that later concluded that members of the force had provided the IRA with intelligence used in the 1989 ambush and murder of two senior RUC officers traveling home from a meeting with police in the Republic.
Henry McDonald, the Guardian's veteran Ireland correspondent, says Harris's habit of speaking his mind could be a shock to the more evasive culture of the Garda Síochána.
"He's a solid old school Presbyterian, serious and straight. He'll often speak on the record about things which other policemen might be more restrained about," McDonald says. "It's not always like that in Dublin."
Appointed for a five-year term, Harris will measure his success on a scale with two extremes. On the one hand, he could succeed in revamping and reviving an old-fashioned, inefficient and unhappy police force, opening it up to new skills and transparency. On the other, he could find his efforts frustrated by obstructive subordinates and resentful politicians.
Either way, it will probably make a good film.
BUS AND RAIL STATIONS in Los Angeles are getting an extra measure of security as body scanners are implemented in an effort to prevent terror attacks.
Los Angeles' transit system will be the first in the United States to employ the technology. The city's Metro agency has partnered with the Transportation Security Agency to roll out "new advanced portable passenger screening technology," according to a press release from Metro and TSA.
This new technology will help detect weapons and explosive devices that pose a threat to the city's metro and bus system.
"Metro is the first surface transportation agency in the nation to purchase such an advanced, high-tech security device to help keep transit riders safe from person-borne improvised explosive devices or other weapons that are intended to cause mass casualties,"according to the press release.
The screening devices have been "tested extensively" by TSA, and over the last year, Metro tested a machine at one of its stations. The agency then purchased several Thruvision TAC-TS4 portable terahertz millimeter wave passenger screening devices. These devices will be placed at select locations throughout the city's transit system.
According to the press release, the machines are "equipped with software that quickly and unobtrusively screens individuals for concealed threats," and can detect metallic and non-metallic objects.
The screening devices do not emit radiation, nor do they reveal anatomical details of people. They identify objects blocking naturally-occurring waves that are produced by people's bodies and show a black spot on the area of a person's body where the item is concealed. The implementation of the devices "allows law enforcement agents and Metro Security to screen rail and bus patrons without disrupting foot traffic and to take decisive, pre-emptive action if suspicious items are found," the release states.
New York could be next to roll out similar precautions city-wide. According to the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the agency tested similar technology at Port Authority Bus Terminal from Monday to Wednesday. In December, a man detonated a faulty pipe bomb under the terminal in an attempted suicide bombing, resulting in a few injuries, but no fatalities.


MUCH IS AT STAKE IN Mali. The arid West African nation has the world's second-youngest population by median age, which offers great potential, experts say. But it's yet unclear whether that potential will translate into progress or make an already tenuous situation much worse. This past weekend's presidential elections, the outcome of which is not immediately clear, will provide some indication as to whether the current mix of international aid is having any effect.
[MORE: Mali's presidential election heads toward runoff.]
Hundreds of Canadian soldiers and six military helicopters deployed to Mali in June as a part of an ongoing Western effort to stabilize the former French colony now plagued by militant extremists and other forms of instability in recent months.
News of the deployment served as a familiar headline for most Westerners, who have viewed Mali a hotspot for extremist activity since then-Republican presidential candidate Mitt Romney referenced it – to rebuke at the time – during a 2012 debate. Mali has since gained international attention for a series of militant uprisings that prompted Western military reponses led by Franceand the local government, and which continue to threaten broader instability, waves of migration and economic disruption.
Yet the country with a deep history of mining wealth, known in the 13th and 14th centuries as a place where "gold flows like a river," is also home to one of the world's oldest constitutions, an oral tradition known as the Charter of Manden. It boasts UNESCO sites such as the Djenne and has a rich culture of dance, architecture, art and cuisine.
Louis Verret, Canada's ambassador to Mali, previously served as the director of development for the African nation from 2010-2013 during the French military intervention, and acknowledges it is considered a poor and fragile country by most Westerners. But he adds that the positive aspects of his tour inspired him to return in 2017 to his current post.
Verret spoke with U.S. News from Bamako about the future of the ongoing international response to assist Mali, and its efforts to prevent the crisis there from spinning out of control. The interview took place before the recent elections, and has been edited for length and clarity.
When I came back in 2017, things had changed. But the Malian people, the citizens, are still the same people. This is what I call a rich country.
However – this is my personal view about the people – when we go back to the overall situation, we are in a crisis here. And this is a very complex and multi-dimensional crisis, mostly for the situation in the north and center of the country, around Gao and Timbuktu, and Mopti. This is a part of the country that is quite difficult in terms of security, and there are also significant governance issues to the country. In Canada, and in Washington, you hear a lot about terrorism and criminal groups. Those fuel long-standing conflicts. They're trying to undermine the effort to stabilize the country, but they are only one piece.
How evident is the security crisis for those living there?
This is something that is very present in the minds of everybody, because it is reported in the newspapers and people talk about these things. Radio is very popular, also.
There are displaced people moving from the north and center to the capital Bamako, and other places, so those things are very well understood, very well known. Obviously, people are reacting very differently based on where they are.
I'll discuss with my family, "There was a bomb in Gao, or Timbuktu a few weeks ago," but that's almost two weeks of traveling if I were to go there, so it's not that close for us.
What effect has the Canadian military deployment had on the crisis there?
We look at it differently. We consider Mali a multidimensional crisis that requires an integrated, multidimensional response to address long-term political development.
There must be a political solution to the crisis. In the short term, we would like the elections (which took place on July 29) to be fair and free. At the same time we look at the longer term, at the multidimensional response that includes our military intervention in Gao.
In that context, we also have to include our programs for stabilization, humanitarian assistance and development assistance, and some police intervention. All this is part of our overall strategy that is to try to respond to the crisis and be inclusive of not only Canada but also MINUSMA (the United Nations peacekeeping mission in Mali), the U.S. and the French.


I think we are probably at the right level, but we have to be a bit more efficient in coordinating and responding to the real challenges we have at the moment. Presidential elections are one of the key steps to being in good shape, but then we also have to be able to work on decentralization, so a peace agreement can be achieved. We have to involve some political dimension into that, but also security and development are key.
A teenager convicted of a terror plot faces a "risk of violent attack" if his identity is made public, a court heard.


We have to be realistic about the election. Elections are necessary but they will not solve everything here. If they go poorly, that won't be positive. But if they go according to plan, and if we have a good turnout of 40 to 45 percent of people registered and a good result, that is one part of the solution.
How important is mining in Mali, and how might that contribute to their future stability?
The mining industry represents more or less 15 percent of the national revenue for Mali, so it's quite important. It accounts for 60 percent of their exports, and I'm referring to all mining but a big majority of it is gold mining.
If you look at a map, the gold mines are mostly located close to the border with Burkina Faso and Senegal, so far away from the actual region where there is insecurity at this moment. Though gold mining is important for revenue generating from the state, it also creates local jobs, and develops skills for workers, which is important. Historically, mining was always a very important feature for Mali. In the 13th century it was known as "the river of gold."
Now that's formal mining. There is also informal mining, which is also important in terms of the economy. This to me is not as positive, there are a lot of issues with the environment and with child labor.
We Canadians are here in Mali mostly because of our values. We've been here for 50 years in our first and major program here trying to reduce poverty. But there is a question of international terrorism here, and these limited number of terrorists can have influence and already do influence the region, here in Mali but also in Niger, Burkina Faso, above the Sahel and they are trying to expand into neighboring West African countries like Senegal or Algeria.
We want to make sure that we return to a stable region. If you are a European country, obviously since they are closer to Africa than we are it has an impact on their border and migration. We – Canada and the Western world – want to have a peaceful environment here so people can live their life according to the rights they should have.
AN INDIVIDUAL WAS arrested over the weekend for allegedly planning a terrorist attack on July 4th in downtown Cleveland.
Authorities said in a press conference on Monday that Demetrius N. Pitts – aka Abdur Raheem Rafeeq – was arrested and charged in federal court with one count of attempting to provide material support to a designated foreign terrorist organization.
[ 
READ: 
Five Things to Know About Immigration and Asylum in the U.S. ]
FBI Special Agent in Charge Stephen Anthony said that Pitts was taken into custody on Sunday. He will appear in federal court later on Monday. Anthony said Pitts had expressed a desire to join a terrorist organization from 2015 to 2017 and recruit people to kill Americans.
Last week, Pitts told an undercover FBI agent that he was planning a terrorist attack on July 4 in Voinovich Park where fireworks are launched in Cleveland. According to Anthony, the park is close to a Coast Guard station and a federal building. Pitts took photographs of the area and video footage as part of reconnaissance for his attack, according to the FBI.
Anthony said Pitts told the undercover agent: "I did tell myself that their holiday is coming up. The Fourth of July Independence Day. What would hit them in the core. Blow up. Have a bomb. Blow up at the Fourth of July Parade."
During his meetings with the undercover FBI agent, Pitts also made comments related to hatred of the military and wanting to chop off heads and hands and dispose of bodies. He also pledged his allegiance to al-Qaeda multiple times, according to the FBI. According to Anthony, Pitts revealed he had plans for another attack in Philadelphia, where he used to reside.
Anthony said Pitts, who is an American citizen, has a criminal history including felonious assault and domestic violence.
U.S. Attorney Justin Herdman said Pitts faces a maximum of 20 years in prison. Herdmand said Pitts was "conducting reconnaissance" last week around downtown Cleveland "for what he thought was a large scale attack on the Fourth of July." Pitts was looking for locations to park a van that would be packed with explosives. He spoke about taking locations like St. John's Cathedral "off the map" and giving remote control cars packed with explosives to the children of military members.
According to Herdman, Pitts responded "I don't care" and "I have no regrets" when asked about the "carnage this would cause."
"This defendant by his own words and by his own deeds, wanted to attack our nation and its ideals … He also wanted to strike at the values that are at the very core of our nation," Herdman said. "He wanted us to be afraid to speak our minds. He also wanted us to be afraid to gather in public places. So I ask this week that we all continue to gather, continue to celebrate America … to continue to have our barbecues and continue to go see fireworks."
Herdman assured the public that law enforcement and the Justice Department are remaining vigilant and keeping the public safe. Cleveland Police Chief Calvin Williams echoed his statements, saying "we need to make sure we stay vigilant," and that law enforcement will be at every major event.
The boy became Britain's youngest convicted terrorist, aged 15, after instructing an alleged jihadist to kill a police officer in Australia.
Now 18, he is seeking an order for lifetime anonymity at the High Court.
Edward Fitzgerald QC told the court if his client is identified he faces the risk of "re-radicalisation" and attack, and his family will be at risk.
A number of media organisations have made representations to the court, arguing that he should be named.
'Re-radicalisation'
The teenager, from Blackburn, Lancashire, was found guilty at Manchester Crown Court of inciting terrorism in October 2015.
The court heard how he hatched the plot when he was only 14 after being recruited on Twitter by an Islamic State group propagandist, Abu Khaled al-Cambodi.
From his bedroom, the boy used a smartphone app to send encrypted phone messages persuading 18-year-old Sevdet Besim to commit mass murder thousands of miles away.
He told Besim to run over at least one police officer then behead him with a knife at an Anzac Day parade parade in Melbourne.
Mr Fitzgerald is asking the High Court in London to grant an injunction which would prevent the teenager from being named - a rare step only taken in a small number of cases.
He told the court there have been "persistent and serious" threats made online to harm or kill the teenager and there is a "significant risk of attacks or retaliation against him" if his identity is made public.
He would be at risk of "re-radicalisation" by extremists and his relatives would be likely to face reprisals were he named, the court heard.
We say all those factors together justify preventing the disclosure of the fact that the person bearing his name was responsible for the incitement when he was 14," Mr Fitzgerald said.
An interim injunction preventing his identification was made pending the outcome of the hearing.
Only a handful of lifetime anonymity orders have been made to date, including those granted to Jon Venables and Robert Thompson, who murdered Liverpool toddler James Bulger, and child killer Mary Bell.
A mock terrorist incident is being staged at Edinburgh Airport later.
Officials at the busy international hub are warning the public and passengers not to be alarmed at the exercise which will be "as authentic as possible".
Neighbouring communities, businesses and residents may see increased activity by the emergency services in and around the airport, including blue lights and loud noises.
A specific area in the terminal building will also be cordoned off.
An Edinburgh Airport spokesman said: "Airport operations will not be affected and disruption to the local community will be kept to a minimum."
A 20-year-old man from Cardiff has been charged with terrorism offences.
Zakaria Afey, from St Mellons, has been charged on suspicion of possessing material useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism and dissemination of a terrorist publication.
He was charged following an operation by the counter-terror unit Wectu.
Mr Afey was bailed to appear at Westminster Magistrates Court, London, on Tuesday afternoon.


After years of secretly hoovering up metadata about millions of citizens, Britain’s spy agency has made its public foray into one of the growing sources for such information by opening its own Instagram account.
GCHQ’s account on the photo-sharing site claims the agency will provide a glimpse into its secret world. Its first post acknowledges GCHQ’s institutional suspicion about openness by including a photograph of the border fence with a “no photography” sign attached.
The account is part of GCHQ’s expanding presence on social media, and comes two years after it opened a Twitter account, which has 75,000 followers.
Such public online socialising is designed to put a friendly gloss over the agency’s more covert activities. Leaks by Edward Snowden, a whistleblower who worked for the GCHQ’s US counterpart, revealed that GCHQ collects and stores vast quantities of data about individuals, including Facebook posts.
The number of Instagram users worldwidetopped a billion this year. This is still less than half that for the parent company, Facebook, but Instagram is more popular among younger people. The Pew Research Center found that 51% of US teenagers use Facebook, compared with 72% who use Instagram.


A 15-year-old boy from Bradford accused of researching and attempting to build a makeshift explosive device has appeared in court.
The boy, who cannot be named for legal reasons, was arrested after an investigation by Counter Terrorism Policing North East.
At the Youth Court wing of Leeds Magistrates' Court, he was denied bail by district judge David Kitson.
No pleas were entered during the 30-minute hearing.
Read more stories in Yorkshire
The boy is next due to appear at the Old Bailey in London on 31 August.
The court heard the boy was charged was making or possessing explosives under suspicious circumstances after two carbon dioxide canisters were found linked together and filled with tacks.
He is also charged with possessing a document or record likely to be useful to a person preparing or committing an act of terrorism, named in court as "Anarchist's Corner".


By granting apps such as Instagram access to smart phone cameras and microphones, users are encouraged to forfeit information about their movements and conversations – a gift to intelligence agencies.
 Are your phone camera and microphone spying on you?
Dylan Curran
 
Read more
A GHCQ spokeswoman said the public account was designed to show how that the Cheltenham-based agency was “working 24/7 to help keep the country safe”“Hopefully this will help dispel some myths and show who we are as individuals,” she said.
GCHQ has come under intense scrutiny since Snowden’s revelations about how it was accessing vast quantities of communications between entirely innocent people as well as targeted suspects. The service, which works alongside MI5 and MI6 to deal with cyber-attacks and terrorism and support the armed forces, marks its 100th anniversary in 2019.
The GCHQ spokeswoman said: “As we enter our centenary year, we’re more keen than ever that people get a picture of what life is really like as a GCHQ employee. We hope our Instagram channel will encourage talented people to consider working with us at GCHQ to help keep the country safe.
“You’ll not only learn about our work to stay one step ahead of those wishing to do us harm, but also get a glimpse at our hobbies, clubs and coffee shops.”


The airline Cathay Pacific has announced that it has suffered a major data leak affecting up to 9.4 million passengers.
The Hong Kong flag carrier admitted that personal information including passport numbers, identity card numbers, email addresses and credit card details had been accessed.
“We are in the process of contacting affected passengers, using multiple communications channels, and providing them with information on steps they can take to protect themselves,” Cathay Pacific’s chief executive, Rupert Hogg, said in a statement on the airline’s website. “We have no evidence that any personal data has been misused.”
Cathay said it had launched an investigation and alerted the police after an ongoing IT operation revealed unauthorised access to systems containing the passenger data of up 9.4 million people.
Hogg added: “The following personal data was accessed: passenger name, nationality, date of birth, phone number, email, address, passport number, identity card number, frequent flyer programme membership number, customer service remarks, and historical travel information.”
The CEO also revealed that 403 expired credit card numbers and 27 credit card numbers with no CVV were accessed. “The combination of data accessed varies for each affected passenger,” he said.
The leak came as the troubled airline battles to stem major losses as it comes under pressure from lower-cost Chinese carriers and Middle East rivals. It booked its first back-to-back annual loss in its seven-decade history in March, and had previously pledged to cut 600 staff including a quarter of its management as part of its biggest overhaul in years.
Hogg did not mention financial compensation for passengers affected by the data leak, but British Airways pledged to compensate customers when the UK flag carrier suffered a data hack last month.
British Airways revealed in September that personal and financial details of about 380,000 customers who booked flights on the group’s website and mobile phone app over several weeks had been stolen.
The revelation came just a few months after the European Union tightened data protection laws with the General Data Protection Regulation.
Theresa May will urge EU leaders meeting in Brussels to create a new sanctions regime to crack down on governments found responsible for cyber-attacks.
Amid growing fears about Russian meddling in foreign elections, including in Europe, and attempted cyber-attacks, most recently on the chemical weapons watchdog in the Netherlands, the prime minister will call on her fellow leaders to take tougher action.
“Individual efforts to protect ourselves, and to call out irresponsible behaviour, are not enough,” she is expected to say. “Malign cyber activity causes harm to our economies, and undermines our democracies. As well as protecting ourselves against attack, we must impose proportionate consequences on those who would do us harm.”
“We should accelerate work on EU restrictive measures to respond to and deter cyber-attacks, including a robust sanctions regime.”
May is keen to underline the fact that Britain will continue to co-operate closely with the EU on security matters after Brexit next March.
She has repeatedly highlighted the malign influence of Russia on global stability, including in a strongly worded Mansion House speech in March, when she warned president Putin: “We know what you are doing. And you will not succeed”.
EU anti-propaganda unit gets €1m a year to counter Russian fake news
 
Read more
EU member-states joined Britain this year in a concerted diplomatic response to the poisoning of Sergei Skripal in Salisbury – an attack now believed to have been carried out by officers of the Russian intelligence service, the GRU.
The prime minister will attend the regular meetings of the European council in Brussels on Thursday, after talks about Brexit on Wednesday night.
Her intervention follows the decision by EU foreign ministers to adopt new sanctions against chemical weapons attacks, at the foreign affairs council in Luxembourg on Monday.
“I believe that we have an opportunity to show our collective political leadership,” May will say. “We have demonstrated significant steps forward against other challenging threats. And should today make clear that malicious cyber activities are no different; we will impose costs on all those who seek to attack us, regardless of the means they use to do so.”
Russia unlikely to reduce aggressive spying, analysts warn
 
Read more
The Dutch and British governments published details this month of an attempted Russian cyber-attack on the international chemical weapons watchdog, the OPCW.
The incident, which was thwarted with the help of British intelligence officials, came after the Sandworm cybercrime unit of the GRU had attempted unsuccessfully to hack the UK Foreign Office in March and the Porton Down chemical weapons facility in April.
EU leaders, including May, will call for action to combat “cyber-enabled illegal and malicious activities” before the European elections in May 2019, according to a draft summit communiqué.
The EU wants to finalise a number of cyber security laws before the final session of the European parliament in April, including a plan to prevent dissemination of terrorist content online.
At a time of permanent cyberwar, the UK must stand firm against Russia | Tim Stevens
 
Read more
The EU’s security commissioner, Julian King, has also warned social media companies that they could face regulation without voluntary action to prevent a repeat of scandals such as when Facebook data was harvestedwithout users’ permission to secretly target them with political ads.
The leaders will call on the commission to assess how a voluntary code for social media companies is working by the end of the year. Measures to combat “unlawful data manipulation and fighting disinformation campaigns … deserve rapid follow-up by the competent authorities,” the draft communique states.
It must go down as one of the most embarrassing months ever for Russia’s military intelligence.
In the 30 days since Theresa May revealed the cover identities of the Salisbury poison suspects, the secretive GRU (now GU) has been publicly exposed by rival intelligence agencies and online sleuths, with an assist from Russia’s own president.
Despite attempts to stonewall public inquiry, the GRU’s dissection has been clinical. The agency has always had a reputation for daring, bolstered by its affiliation with special forces commando units and agents who have seen live combat.
But in dispatching agents to the Netherlands who could, just using Google, be easily exposed as graduates of an elite GRU academy, the agency appears reckless and absurdly sloppy.
Visual guide: how Dutch intelligence thwarted a Russian hacking operation
 
Read more
One of the suspected agents, tipped as a “human intelligence source” by Dutch investigators, had registered five vehicles at a north-western Moscow address better known as the Aquarium, the GRU finishing school for military attaches and elite spies. According to online listings, which are not official but are publicly available to anyone on Google, he drove a Honda Civic, then moved on to an Alfa Romeo. In case the address did not tip investigators off, he also listed the base number of the Military-Diplomatic Academy.
That was the same school where Anatoliy Chepiga, the alleged true identity of the Russian suspect in the Salisbury poisoning, finished his education. Viktor Suvorov, a GRU agent who later defected to the west, described the academy as so secret that Soviet citizens could be jailed just for revealing its existence.
The internet has now made it far harder to hide that evidence. But the GRU apparently thought that would not matter.
Meanwhile, most of the alleged agents could be found online.
One of the men, Aleksei Morenets, an alleged hacker, appeared to have set up a dating profile.
Another played for an amateur Moscow football team “known as the security services team” a current player told the Moscow Times. “Almost everyone works for an intelligence agency.” The team rosters are publicly available.
Russia has claimed that the investigations are fake and that researchers are in league with western intelligence. But most of the evidence to uncover the spies was already out there, and conveniently timestamped on social media.
The saga began after May’s announcement last month, when Vladimir Putin ordered the two Salisbury suspects to appear on television. There, the two men fumbled through an awkward story about visiting Salisbury twice to see the cathedral, while an editor for state television suggested that they were gay. Homosexuality is largely treated as taboo in Russia and the government passed a law banning “gay propaganda” in 2013.
It didn’t help. One of the two men was outed as a likely GRU colonel anyway, after online investigators dug up photographs from his military service and leaked passport records.
Along the way, the researchers from Bellingcat and the Insider also recognised that the men were issued sequentially numbered passports by a special division, making it easier for anyone with access to a leaked database to identify them.
And then came Thursday’s bombshell: four men outed by Dutch investigators for attempting to hack into the Organisation for the Prohibition of Chemical Weapons (as well as Malaysia’s investigation into a downed jetliner).
The alleged spies were caught carrying enough telephones to fill an electronics store. Moreover, like all meticulous Russians on a business trip, they held on to their taxi receipts from GRU headquarters.
Russia will publicly deny the latest reports and revelations about the alleged GRU agents. It has no other alternative. But the exposure of several consecutive European operations should raise questions about whether Russian military intelligence is being intentionally provocative or has simply gone off the rails.


STUDENTS IN CHICAGO have reported over 600 complaints of sexual abuse so far this school year, officials said in a hearing Wednesday.
Some 624 allegations have been reported to the Chicago Public Schools system's new Office of Student Protections and Title IX, which was created this fall, according to reports. Of the allegations, nearly 500 of them involve student-on-student abuse.
[ 
SEE: 
The Week in Cartoons, Nov. 26-30 ]
The office has referred 133 allegations accusing adults to the system's inspector general, and the majority of allegations against adults do not involve a system employee, the Chicago Sun-Times reported.
"We're in a world now where it's not OK to look the other way on any of this," said Douglas Henning, the school district's deputy general counsel, accordingto the Chicago Tribune. "We're in a world now where if you see something that makes you uncomfortable, that you think is wrong, you absolutely have to report that."
CPS created the new office after an investigation in The Chicago Tribune found that the school system had largely failed to protect its students from sexual abuse. In September, federal officials said they were withholding millions of dollars from the city's school system, citing its inability to properly address sexual violence complaints. The Department of Education's Office for Civil Rights is also investigating four complaints of sexual harassment or abuse in Chicago schools, according to the Tribune.


UNDOUBTEDLY, SEXUAL abuse is one of the most underreported crimes in our nation.
According to the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, in 2016 more than 57,000 children reported being sexually abused, and that’s on the low end since only about a third of cases are reported. What's more, males are even less likely to report sexual abuse than females. Research indicates that about 1 in 6 boys will be sexually abused by the age of 18, and most of them aren’t saying a thing.
The Crimes Against Children Research Center at the University of New Hampshire reports that 90 percent of these boys will likely know the person who is sexually abusing them. According to RAINN, or the Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network, about a third of the sexual perpetrators are family members, and about 60 percent are acquaintances.
Another potential reason males may not report being victims of sexual abuse is stereotypes that exist in our culture pertaining to how they are supposed to be strong and independent. As a society, we have done a huge disservice to our boys by instilling stereotypes, like that big boys don’t cry, and sending the message they should just suck it up and be strong, or even worse, that they need to “man up." According to these false beliefs, men are supposed to be tough and brave, and they're supposed to have a strong sex drive. Media, literature, schools, community establishments like places of worship and even family members can reinforce stereotypical messages and paint a fictitious picture of how boys are supposed to behave. Research indicates that male sex abuse survivors not only have few resources available to them, but they also face greater stigma than female survivors.
[Read: Sexually Abused Children Face a Long Road to Recovery.]
In a study published last year in the Journal of Adolescent Health, researchers show that gender stereotypes have been associated with high levels of stress, anxiety and depression. It's not just an American problem, either. According to research done as part of the Global Early Adolescent Study, a collaborative effort of Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, the World Health Organization and other research partners, children studied from 15 different countries began to accept gender stereotypes well before the age of 10. So it appears that many of these misconceptions are universal. When boys are taught that they aren’t supposed to show emotion because that is a sign of weakness, they learn to suppress and not express their feelings.
In a society full of erroneous stereotypes, is it any wonder that boys are less likely to report having been sexually abused than girls? With most of the research on sex abuse focusing on male perpetrators and female survivors, it’s past time that we shed some light on the devastating effects of male sexual abuse. Here are some things to keep in mind:
      * One in 25 boys will be sexually abused before they turn 18, according to a review of child sex abuse prevalence studies.
      * 10 percent of rape survivors are male, according to RAINN.
      * 27 percent of male rape survivors were sexually abused before they were 10 years old, according to the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
      * 7 percent of boys in the juvenile justice system have been sexually abused.
      * 50 percent of the children who are sex trafficked in the U.S. are male; and according to the National Coalition to Prevent Child Sexual Abuse and Exploitation, the average age at which boys first become victims of prostitution is 11 to 13.
Unquestionably, when boys or men are sexually abused, it has a profound impact on their psychological and emotional well-being. According to the American Psychological Association's Division of Trauma Psychology, this horrific crime has been associated with:
      * Alcoholism and drug use
      * Anger and aggression
      * Anxiety
      * Depression
      * Intimate relationship problems
      * Poor school and work performance
      * Post-traumatic stress disorder
      * Sleep disturbances
      * Suicidal thoughts and attempts
Despite all of the information that we have on sex abuse, we still have a long way to go. It’s hard to turn on the TV and see that another person, such as a coach, teacher, priest or physician has taken indecent liberties with a minor. As we continue to urge survivors to come forward, more survivors may begin to tell their stories.
[Read: The Silent Epidemic: Child Sexual Abuse.]
As parents, we need to make sure that we don't endorse damaging societal stereotypes about boys at home. First, we have to challenge our own biases and preconceived notions. Next, we can teach our children from an early age to question what they hear and see on television and social media. We can teach them that it's perfectly normal for boys to cry, to be afraid and to express how they feel. Furthermore, we should teach them that it’s OK to tell others when someone has wronged them; and sadly, we have to tell them that person may even be someone they respect and trust.
If you believe that your child may have been victimized, watch out for these signs that kids who have been abused may exhibit:
      * Avoiding or appearing uncomfortable in the presence of a family member, family friend or acquaintance
      * Becoming secretive and shy
      * Engaging in self-harm, such as cutting or burning themselves
      * Sleeping problems and nightmares
      * Expressing suicidal thoughts
      * Running away
      * Experiencing mood swings, anger or depression
      * Receiving money or gifts frequently from another adult (often used as a source of bribery for not telling)
      * Eating less or more than usual
      * Taking less care of appearance or hygiene
      * Acting out in sexually inappropriate ways
      * Using sexually explicit vocabulary, especially when younger children, who wouldn’t otherwise know the meaning of the words, are doing this
      * Declining school performance
      * Pulling away from hobbies and interests
      * Pulling back from others, or becoming isolated
If you suspect child abuse in any form, please report it and make sure your child receives professional help immediately. As parents, we should monitor anyone who wants to spend excessive amounts of time with our kids. Also, children should be taught at an early age to speak out if anyone ever touches them or does anything to them that makes them feel uncomfortable.
Although we have made strides in reaching our youth, we have a lot more work to do. Sexual abuse is a serious crime plaguing our nation, and we need to make sure that both girls and boys feel loved and supported, and that they have the resources they need to heal.
We also need to do more to understand the devastating impact this horrific crime has on male survivors. We need more trained professionals to support male survivors. Doctors treating sexual abuse survivors have fewer guidelines available to treat males in comparison to females.
According to the World Health Organization, male rape is often not treated as an equal offense with female rape. That needs to change. We need to break the taboo that keeps many boys from coming forward to disclose they've been sexually abused, and begin to train, conduct research and increase awareness, so male survivors can heal, not remain silent. Keep in mind that the prevalence of falsely reporting sexual abuse is very low – between 2 and 10 percent, according to a review of research – so it’s unlikely a child will report something untrue.
[See: 10 Concerns Parents Have About Their Kids' Health.]
Sadly, many kids are sexually abused, and any child can be a victim, regardless of gender, sexuality, sexual orientation, race, ethnicity or religion. It’s time we teach our children to speak out when someone abuses them, for their voice is one of power, strength and truth.
THE PRESIDENT OF THE United States Conference of Catholic Bishops announced at the group's national meeting on Monday that it will not vote on new steps to combat the ongoing sexual abuse crisis in the Catholic Church.
Cardinal Daniel DiNardo said that consultations on the matter will continue, but the Vatican requested that voting be postponed until after a global meeting on the crisis takes place in February.
[ 
SEE: 
The Week in Cartoons, Nov. 12-16, 2018 ]
"My dear brothers, in light of this morning's news, the nature of my address changes," DiNardo said at the conference in Baltimore. "We remain committed to the specific program of greater episcopal accountability that we will discuss these days. Consultations will take place. Votes will not this week. But we will prepare ourselves to move forward."
According to Catholic News Service, the proposals would change "standards of episcopal conduct" and form "a special commission for the review of complaints against bishops for violations of the standards."
Although DiNardo was disappointed by the Vatican's request to delay voting, he said he hoped that the delay will improve the church's response to sexual abuse allegations.
In response to the Vatican's decision, Cardinal Blase Cupich of Chicago said the conference should move forward with discussing the proposals and convene a special meeting in March to vote after the findings of the February meeting are released.
Culpich called the February meeting a "watershed moment" in the Catholic Church's history, CNS reported. He said it is evidence that the Vatican is taking the problem seriously.
Although sexual abuse has been a problem throughout the history of the Catholic Church around the world, recent news of widespread abuse and cover ups in the United States has shined a spotlight on the issue and renewed discussion of the scandal.
In his opening address, DiNardo apologized to victims of abuse, stating that he is "deeply sorry."
"Brothers, we have fallen into a place of great weakness, DiNardo said. 'We need to pray and act right now in this very place to begin rising to a new integrity."


SEXUAL ASSAULT HAS BEEN in the news a lot lately, and the topic isn’t likely to fade away any time soon. Thanks to wall-to-wall media coverage, our kids know all about Brett Kavanaugh’s alleged assault of Christine Blasey Ford, Harvey Weinstein’s predatory behavior toward young female starlets and the drugging-and-raping that put Bill Cosby behind bars. They’ve heard President Trump describe this era as “a very scary time for young men in America,” and have heard the phrase “toxic masculinity” over and over as pundits and ordinary people search for the root cause of violence against women.
But exposure doesn’t equal understanding. Today’s boys are coming of age in a culture that simultaneously glorifies and demonizes male dominance. Long-held notions of “what makes a man” are beginning to crumble, yet an enlightened understanding of men and masculinity has yet to take its place. Many of our boys care deeply about respect and consent and are upset that the predominant social narrative paints all males as potential sexual predators.
[Read: How to Talk to Young Kids About Consent and Harvey Weinstein.]
You can help your boys develop a more mature understanding of sexual assault by introducing nuance and context into the conversation. Start with these five facts:
Boys can be victims of sexual assault too.
The #MeToo movement has drawn attention to the many ways women and girls are sexually harassed, assaulted and objectified. It’s important for boys to know that males can be victims as well. According to RAINN (Rape, Abuse & Incest National Network), 1 out of every 10 rape victims are male. Experts say that at least 1 in 6 men have experienced sexual abuse or assault; and the actual number is probably higher because many men don’t ever tell anyone about their experience.
Contrary to popular belief, teenage boys often experience physical or emotional abuse in romantic relationships. According to a recent Canadian study, boys are more likely to experience physical abuse than to dole it out. One in 14 boys said they were purposefully hit, slapped or physically hurt by a boyfriend or girlfriend in the last year, compared to 1 in 25 girls.
False accusations are rare.
As the hashtags #BelieveHer and #BelieveWomen have gained ground on social media, some have begun to question whether it's wise to believe claims that may be decades old. The trend toward believing victims, they say, puts all males at risk of being falsely accused of sexual assault. However, while false accusations do happen, they are rare.
According to a review of several research studies, the prevalence of false reporting is between 2 and 10 percent. In other words, there’s approximately a 1-in-20 chance that your son will be accused of sexual assault – and a 1-in-6 chance that he’ll experience sexual abuse or assault. The odds of your son being a victim of sexual assault are much greater than the odds that he’ll be falsely accused of perpetrating it.
[Read: Teach Teens About the Significant Problem of Sex Being Leveraged As Power.]
Most men do not sexually assault women.
Over the past year or so, many Americans have learned that sexual harassment and assault are far more common than they thought. However, it’s important for boys to know that sexual misconduct is not a given; it is possible to be a masculine man and respect women.
That’s a hard message to impart, given that movies, music and TV – and real life – often equate a man’s worth with his sexual prowess and imply that women exist for men’s sexual pleasure. In a recent poll of 1,000 American kids and teens ages 10 to 19, half of the boys said they’d heard men in their families make sexual jokes or comments about women. We can help our boys by pointing out examples of men who treat men, women and children with respect. We can demonstrate respect and discuss consent within our own families and circles of influences. And we can help our boys wrestle with changing social mores. Boys need to know that it's OK to be a guy, and that being male doesn’t predispose anyone to (or excuse) disrespectful or violent behavior.
Many women don’t talk about their assaults because they’re afraid of your reaction.
The male desire to protect is socially ingrained and may be hard-wired. It can also inadvertently keep victims from coming forward.
In a recent Washington Post article entitled “Dear Dads: Your daughters told me about their assaults. This is why they never told you,” writer Monica Hesse shares heartbreaking snippets of messages she received from women and girls. These women didn’t tell the men in their lives what happened because they didn’t want to make things worse. They didn’t want to disappoint their fathers or see them cry, and they were terrified of further violence and trauma. "To the father of the teenager who was raped at a party," Hesse wrote, for example, "You don’t know about this, because she was certain that if you knew, you would kill her attacker and go to prison, and it would be her fault."
Saying things like, “If anyone ever does anything to you, I’ll kill him!” is not helpful. The best thing a boy (or anyone) can do for a victim of assault is listen compassionately. Phrases like “It took a lot of courage to tell me this” and “I’m so sorry this happened to you” are much more helpful than revenge-motivated action.
Peer influence matters.
Peer pressure is one of the most powerful determinants of sexual assault. Boys who are surrounded by peers who consider sexual activity a measure of success are more likely to feel compelled to seek sex by any means necessary. Conversely, boys who are part of diverse friend groups that include males and females and peers with a wide variety of interests are less likely to commit sexual violence.
[See: 10 Ways to Broach the Subject of Sex With Your Teen.]
Of course, it’s nearly impossible to curate your son’s peer group; the more you object to his choice of friends, the more adamant he’ll become about spending time with them. What you can do is talk to your son about the correlation between peer influence and sexual assault. If your son fears being accused of sexual assault, he should steer clear of guys who put a premium on sexual conquest. You can also support and encourage friendships with girls; as males and females get to know one another as humans, the likelihood of abuse decreases.


POPE FRANCIS ACCEPTED the resignation of Cardinal Donald Wuerl, the archbishop of Washington, on Friday following weeks of uncertainty and anger over the cardinal's role in clergy sex abuse scandals.
Wuerl, who turns 78 in November, submitted his resignation three years ago at the age of 75, as in accordance with Catholicism's Code of Canon Law. However, Pope Francis did not accept the resignation until after Wuerl met with him last month and "requested that his resignation be accepted," according to the Vatican.
In a letter from the pope to the cardinal, the pope writes that he understands Wuerl's resignation request "rests on two pillars that have marked and continue to mark your ministry." One of those pillars, the pontiff writes, is "to seek in all things the greater glory of God and to procure the good of the people entrusted to your care."
Pope Francis also recognizes the scandal that has surrounded the cardinal following accusations in a recent grand jury report that Wuerl covered up sexual abuse by members of the clergy. However, the pope takes a softer stance concerning Wuerl's role in the scandal, and continues to pledge his support of the embattled cardinal.
"You have sufficient elements to 'justify' your actions and distinguish between what it means to cover up crimes or not to deal with problems, and to commit some mistakes," the letter states. "However, your nobility has led you not to choose this way of defense. Of this, I am proud and thank you."


"The Holy Father's decision to provide new leadership to the Archdiocese can allow all of the faithful, clergy, religious and lay, to focus on healing and the future. It permits this local Church to move forward," Wuerl said. "Once again for any past errors in judgment I apologize and ask for pardon. My resignation is one way to express my great and abiding love for you the people of the Church of Washington."
Despite his resignation, Pope Francis has asked the cardinal to remain as the apostolic administrator of the archdiocese until his role is filled.